What is cloud computing?
Cloud computing is the delivery of technology services - including compute, storage, databases, networking, software, and many more - over the internet with pay-as-you-go pricing. So, rather than owning your own computing infrastructure or data centers, you can rent access to these different services from a cloud service provider, like Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure, or Google Cloud Platform.

You can do more with the cloud than host a website on a server. You could store, back up, and recover data, create cloud-native applications, stream audio and video, deliver software on demand, analyze data, embed artificial intelligence models, and much more.

Example-
Imagine you're a company and you have a website. Let's use DataCamp as an example. Learners can navigate to the DataCamp website to take a course. DataCamp periodically runs free weeks, during which learners can access all content for free. This attracts more learners than usual to the website. More learners is great, but with increased traffic can come problems. If not set up correctly, our equipment can't keep up with the demand, and the service slows down which might cause learners to stop using DataCamp. This is obviously not what we want. But what can we do to make sure that this doesn't happen?
We first need to understand how you can host a website. One way is to buy a server and host the website on that server. Think of a server as a very powerful computer that you are able to access. Typically, they don't come with a monitor but you connect into them remotely. Your server will be located on the premises of the organization. When your success kicks in, and more people start using the website, you'll have to buy or rent new servers to handle that traffic without slowing down the website. It will take time to set them up and will cost a lot of money. Even though you won't need these servers all the time, only during free week in the example, you still pay for them all the time. 
The other option is to use cloud computing. This time, you put your website on a cloud server, similar to how you put it on a dedicated server before. Once again, you can access this server remotely. You'll now have access to computing power instantly when you need it. As more people start visiting your website, and you need more power to scale up, you can access more computing power in the cloud, as you need, on-demand. If your website traffic comes back down, you can easily release those servers back to the cloud. Billing works similar to how you pay for electricity or gas. When you use the cloud service, the meter starts running, and when you're done you turn it off and the meter stops.


Cloud computing vs. on-premise
Cloud is more scalable as you can easily add or release cloud resources. Compared to on-premise. It also has a fast set-up speed. Lastly, the billing is more flexible in the cloud since you only pay for what you use. 


Cloud computing characteristics
There are many benefits related to cloud computing. We are going to look at some characteristics: virtualization, scalability, cost, speed, performance, growth, reliability, and security.

1. Virtualization
Virtualization is the fundamental technology that powers cloud computing. It splits a physical server into several virtual servers, each running their own independent operating system. Not only will this allow a more efficient use of the physical resources available, it also abstracts the physical layer from the virtualized machine, making it more portable and easier to manage in a cloud environment. This reduces the need for physical machines and maximizes the output of individual servers, allowing cloud providers to operate on economies of scale.

2. Scalability
With cloud computing, you can easily add and remove resources as you need them. Imagine you are an e-commerce site. During peak times, like Black Friday, you will need to have enough resources available to handle the increased traffic. The scalability of the cloud makes it easy for you to do so.
There are two types of scaling. Vertical scaling allows you to change the power of your existing instance. You could get a more powerful server for example. With horizontal scaling, you are simply increasing the number of instances you're using, sharing the workload across multiple devices.

3. Cost
With many cloud services, you only pay for what you use. If your instance is running for three hours before you shut it down, then you only pay for those three hours that you were using it. On top of that, you don't have any capital expenses of buying hardware and software and managing your on-site infrastructure. Just like buying a house can sometimes be cheaper than renting one, an on-premise solution can be more cost-efficient than renting from the cloud. If the resources you need are clear and stable over time, an on-premise data center might be cheaper in the long term. The best solution depends on the use case. Note that there are cloud services with other payment models as well.

4. Speed
The cloud makes resources available to you almost immediately when you ask for them. This is called on-demand resourcing. There is a fast set-up time and you can deploy technology services in a matter of minutes. No waiting around for hardware to be ordered, installed, cabled, and configured before using it.

5. Performance
An organization's IT operations and equipment are housed in a facility called a data center. A single on-premise data center, in most cases, cannot compete with the worldwide network of data centers provided by cloud providers. They regularly upgrade to the latest generation of fast and efficient computing hardware.

6. Growth
With the cloud you can grow using a wide range of resources and services. Because of the on-demand resourcing, growth constraints are significantly reduced. Additionally, you can expand to new geographic regions and deploy globally in minutes. Most cloud providers allow you to provision resources across their global network.

7. Reliability
Cloud computing ensures the durability and availability of your data and services. This is possible because the data is purposely replicated at multiple redundant data centers in the cloud provider's network. If one data-center is impacted by, for example a natural disaster, you don't need to worry as the data is still available elsewhere.

8. Security
It's important for companies to make sure that all data is securely stored or managed. When choosing for a cloud solution, you are trusting an external party to keep your data secure. Whenever an outside-party is trusted with your company data, you run the risk of unauthorized personnel accessing it. Cloud security controls are particularly risky for businesses in highly regulated sectors, like health care, government, or finance organizations. This is why an on-premise solution might be preferred. Nevertheless, more and more cloud providers are offering services that are aligned with these regulations and guarantee both physical and virtual security of their data centers.


Cloud service models
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) - offers cloud infrastructure- Basically you provide the infrastructure (i.e. Network, Storage, Servers) to the customers. They can use their own resorces (OS, Development platform, applications ect) for development. It is used by the System Admins.
Example- Amazon Web Services (AWS), Cisco Metacloud, Microsoft Azure, Google Compute Engine (GCE)

Platform as a Service (PaaS) - offers infrastructure and software for application development- Platform with OS, Development platform is being provided, you just have to go in the platform and develop and deploy as per you need. It is used by the developers.
Example- Windows Azure, Heroku, Force.com, Google App Engine, Apache Stratos

Software as a Service (SaaS) - offers ready-to-use applications in the cloud- Everything is already there you just you it for your purpose. Example- Google Applications Office 365 etc. It is used by end customers.
Example- Google Workspace (formerly GSuite), Dropbox, Salesforce, Cisco WebEx, Skype, WhatsApp, GoToMeeting, Zoom


Cloud deployment models
Private cloud
The private cloud model is private by design and designated for exclusive use by its tenants. This means to access a private cloud, you need to connect to a network link, which means special network access needs to be set up by IT. An organization may hire a third party to host their private cloud infrastructure or host it themselves. The private cloud model can be appealing because infrastructure is designed for exclusive use. This gives an organization direct control over the resources available, alongside with how data is stored. For example, you can specify what kind of operating system and the exact hardware you want. This is flexibility that does not come with other models. This is especially useful if there are specific security requirements or risks. But, it usually requires more investment in terms of time and capital expenditure compared to the other models. Consider the infrastructure that needs to be designed, hardware that needs to be bought, set up, and maintained. However, this decreases if a third-party, like IBM or RackSpace, provides and maintains the hardware. You maybe wondering how this is different from on-premise. If so, good question! The infrastructure in this model adheres to cloud principles, meaning it uses virtualization that allows on-demand compute resources. Private cloud can also be located off-premises.
Example- HP Data Centers, Microsoft, and Ubuntu 

Public cloud
The second model is the public cloud. The cloud infrastructure is shared and open for use by the general public. The infrastructure is owned and managed by a cloud service provider, like AWS or Azure. Public clouds are Internet accessible. This lets organizations get started quickly with minimal investment. They don't have to host or commit to an infrastructure, instead they can pick what services they need from a provider. They can also instantly buy more capacity making it easier to scale. If it's important to have direct access to the data centers or hardware than public cloud is not a good choice. Public cloud providers keep their data center locations secret, even to their clients, for security reasons.
Example- Gmail, Office365, Dropbox, Azure

Hybrid cloud
Why not both? Enter the third model: hybrid. This is when an organization uses a combination of two or more distinct models. The different models interact with each other via a network link and can share data and services. It's more of a question of where data and services are physically stored. For example, you could store sensitive patient data on a private cloud for security reasons and use an application on the public cloud, like a business intelligence tool, to process it. Hybrid clouds are useful in the case of cloud bursting. This is when a private cloud is overwhelmed by demand and hits capacity. To avoid disruption of service to users, traffic is moved to a public cloud instance. A classic example of this are seasonal spikes. For example, retail businesses can expect extraordinary traffic during sales periods like Black Friday or Boxing Day. This allows organizations to cost-effectively handle periodic spikes with pay-per-use pricing.
Example- Amazon, Microsoft, Google, Cisco

Multicloud 
It combines different cloud provider services. For example, an organization could use Azure for backups, AWS for website hosting, and Google Cloud for analytics. Multicloud provides flexibility on choosing pricing plans and service offerings. It also reduces reliances on one vendor. Don't confuse this with the hybrid model which uses a combination of cloud deployment model, not services!

Community model
This is when the cloud's infrastructure is shared by a specific community for their exclusive use. Usually this community has a shared interest or concern, whether it be having the same security requirements or jurisdiction, or sharing a mission. This shared infrastructure allows for easier collaboration and sharing of data, whether it's research data between institutions or government data across agencies. The infrastructure itself can be managed and hosted internally or externally.


Cloud roles
Cloud architect
A cloud architect is a solutions architect essentially for the cloud. A cloud architect takes the technical requirements of a business problem, designs an appropriate cloud infrastructure, and comes up with a plan to deploy said infrastructure. They have to ensure that their design is scalable and optimized for cost.

Cloud engineer
Cloud engineers build, maintain and monitor cloud services. They are often responsible for migrating on-premise solutions to the cloud. This title is often used as a catch-all for any technical work required on the cloud. For example, in smaller companies, the cloud architect and engineer can be one role.

DevOps engineer
DevOps combines software development and IT operations. Previously, there were system engineers who maintained server infrastructure by physically configuring hardware. Now we do that by code, which is the developer aspect of DevOps. DevOps engineers ensure the reliability, availability, and scalability of the cloud through software development and automation. For example, if there is a rise in usage, there should be some automation to increase resources or if a server shuts down unexpectedly, there should be an automatic patch and redeploy.

Security engineer
As we discussed in the last video, security is very important on the cloud and requires different technical requirements depending on geographic area. Security engineers spec the technical security requirements of an organization's cloud infrastructure. They work to test and asses the security of data on the cloud. Generally, they are responsible for protecting organization and user data from a technical perspective.