Dark Waters Summary

The movie is based on real life case. The lawsuit is between defense lawyer Robert Bilot which was played by Mark Ruffalo and the chemical manufacturing giant DuPont. Around the year 1998 Robert got a visitor on his office and he asks Robert to help him fight the case against DuPont. 
Upon investigation he found that DuPont dump their manufacturing plants wastes in the nearby area because of which the Plantiffs 190 cows were dead and the plantiff showed a video tapes also as a evidence to Robert for investigation. 
Therefore To gain more information on the case, Robert filed a small suit against DuPont to find out the type of chemicals on the site. Upon investigation he found that the company was using a chemical name PFOA or C8 which is used to manufacture Teflon, which is used in nonstick frying pans and carpet flooring. 
Basically the chemical PFOA are forever chemicals, chemicals that do not leave the blood stream and slowly accumulate in your body.
DuPont has been running tests of the effect of PFOA for decades, finding that it causes cancer and birth defects, but they did not make the findings public.
So, After this foundings Robert filed a action lawsuit against DuPont. 
But the company rejected all these accusations. So to check viabilty of the facts the court order DuPont to carry out medical monitoring to prove that PFOA causes cancer and other dieseas. 
To get data for it, Robert's team tells locals (who lives in west virginia where this manufacturing plant is there) that they can get their settlement money after donating blood. Nearly 70,000 people donate to the study. 
The case goes on for more than 10 years. And finally when the results came it was proved that Robert was right and DuPont had to pay around 671 million to the around 3500+ families whom's report came out positive during the test.



2. Refer to the readings provided for the session. Which sustainable strategies can you co-relate with the movie/documentary you have chosen? If not, identify 2 strategies that you could deploy were you in a similar position.


Sustainable strategies that we can co-relate with the movie are Transformative extroverted. In  Transformative extroverted the most important things are facts. 

Here in this movie after the discovery of the truth about the company DuPont that they were using dangerous substance, Ethical Practices were shown by the law firm Taft by making this information public. Even though they had good connection with DuPont. 
They filed a lawsuit against chemical giant DuPont without considering the ramifications. 

Also, strategies that we could deploy in a similar position.
Ethical Transparency- Transparency with Investors and Shareholders, customers and employyess is must for a businessess to thrive. After the findings related to Chemical PFOA, DuPont should have made those findings public.
 
Another strategy that we could deploy is conservative. Conservative in a sense of Chemical Management. 
Talking from the movie perspective Once they came to know about the dangerous substances present in chemical, DuPont could have stopped manufacturing the products. 
Or they could have used altenative chemicals but they did not chose to do that. 
Also rather than dumping the residuals of the plant in an open place they could have found an alternate option.

$3.3 million was the last time you have paid to us five years ago for a distribution arrangement in Kumar.
Now keeping the inflation factor in mind it should be around 7 million. 
Because you can talk with any ther distributor you will come to know that prices have doubled what it was 5 years ago.
Also I think we had a good relationship over the years and last time also when we did the distribution for you in Melhand province we have successfully completed our quota. So when it comes to trust. I think we have proved you our capabalities. 
And if you are aware of the current situation the old govt. is back and in that time we were the leader and we are one of the best distributor for long time.
And if you accept our offer we can also help you in setting up your distribution for the restaurants. Our members have connections with Kumars biggest restaurants chains.




https://news.microsoft.com/transform/now-its-personal-unilevers-digital-journey-leads-to-real-results-for-consumers-and-employees/
https://www.digitalbulletin.com/CaseStudies/Technology/2021/July/unilever/the-road-to-40/
https://www.cxotalk.com/video/digital-supply-chain-innovation-unilever
https://assets.unilever.com/files/92ui5egz/production/aa2b7261b82d3493319d4f46176e4e245a45c051.pdf/investor-event-2019-marc-engel-supply-chain.pdf
https://www.salesforce.com/uk/customer-success-stories/unilever/

Unilever PLC is a multinational consumer goods company with more than 400 brands and 161,000 employees. It's products are available in around 190 countries. Unilever is organised into three main divisions: Foods and Refreshments; Home Care; and Beauty & Personal Care. Unilever has the unique privilege of being a company that touches over 2.5 billion people every day. Through its commitment to sustainability and diversity, Unilever is changing the world for the better. Unilever exists on a grand scale: seven out of every ten households around the world contain at least one Unilever product.
The fourth industrial revolution will bring digital transformation and automation into the manufacturing industry, with the goal of creating the smart factories of the future. One area that this transformation will greatly affect is food manufacturing. In fact, the market for applying technology in the food industry is predicted to reach over $250 billion by the end of 2022. This digital transformation will see manufacturers take full advantage of data analytics, IoT and autonomous vehicles to streamline operations, make predictions and increase the overall safety and productivity of the sites.
Unilever is driving digital through its R&D organisation, introducing new tools to increase the speed, efficiency and quality of our innovation processes. The digital transformation plan of Unilever is aimed at building technology and data analytics infrastructure in order to connect directly with a billion of its consumers. Unilever has automated over 700 processes in operations – saving time and reducing costs. Unilever believes that future growth will depend on accelerating the adoption of a new model of marketing focused on brands with purpose, generating great content, delivered via digital channels using advanced data and analytics.

Objective-
To analyze how Unilever is shifting towards Industry 4.0.
To assess the steps taken by Unilever for its digital transformation.
To determine the impact of digitalization on Unilever.

Methodology-
Qualitative Research
Secondary Research- Journals, Interviews, News Articles




Negotiations can be called as a way of resolving disputes. It is considered as being synonymous to settlement, agreement, collaboration and bargaining. It takes place almost in all spheres of life -be it is business, personal circumstances (married life, parenting, etc.), legal procedures, government matters, etc. Negotiation can be defined as a channel of communication intended to reconcile differences between parties and to settle conflict jointly. The parties aim at achieving a win-win position.

Business Negotiations requires a lot of homework, such as asking what is the need of negotiation, who all are involved, what are their view points, what are your aims, what is expected from negotiation, etc.

Negotiation involves minimum of two parties. The aim of negotiation is understood by both parties. The parties are willing to arrive at a mutually agreeable outcome. The outcome is acceptable to both parties.


Negotiations are a method of resolving disagreements. Settlement, agreement, collaboration, and bargaining are all terms that are used interchangeably. A minimum of two parties are involved in a negotiation. Both parties are aware of the negotiation's goal. It arises in nearly every facet of life, including business, personal conditions (marriage, parenting, etc.), legal procedures, government problems, and so on. Negotiation is a method of communication aimed at resolving disagreements between parties and resolving conflicts amicably. Basically, both the parties looks to win and get the best result for themselves.
A business negotiation is a process in which two or more parties (each with their own goals, needs, and perspectives) strive to find common ground and establish an agreement to resolve a conflict, settle an issue of mutual concern, or exchange value. Business negotiations take a lot of study, such as determining why a negotiation is necessary, who is involved, what are their perspectives, what are your goals, and what is expected from the negotiation, what's the demand of other party, what will be the alternate options and who will negotiate from the other party. 
In this term paper we are discussing about what factors to consider before negotiation, how can we form a negotiating team, what are the different types of negotiation and how to strategize your negotiation.




Negotiation is merely a strategy, a debate among individuals or groups to establish a consensual agreement in which everyone benefits in some way and problems are avoided. It is defined as a method of debating issues in order to reach a consensus that is acceptable to all parties involved.
Negotiators who wish to adopt the interactional perspective on business negotiation should engage in a strong processual view that does not isolate processes from each other.
This study has examined the role of religious belief in international business negotiations, revealing that while religious devotion influences one’s approach to negotiations, the nature of the influence may vary according to the individual in question. While ‘intra-religious’ negotiations may be approached with different styles and be perceived as preferable for most religiously observant executives, a small number may actually find ‘inter-religious’ negotiations more likely to succeed. For others, of course, the religious identity of one’s counterpart is largely irrelevant to the proceedings.




Negotiation is just a tactic, a discussion among individuals or groups to reach a mutually beneficial agreement in which everyone benefits and difficulties are avoided. Negotiators who want to use an interactional approach to commercial negotiations should take a strong processual approach that does not separate processes.
We've also looked at the significance of religious belief in international business negotiations, finding that while religious devotion does influence one's approach to negotiations, the extent of that influence varies depending on the individual. While most religiously observant executives prefer 'intra-religious' negotiations since they are treated in various ways, a minority percentage may find 'inter-religious' discussions more likely to succeed. Others, on the other hand, consider one's counterpart's religious affiliation to be largely immaterial to the proceedings.
In an intercultural situation, we also looked at how individual negotiators adapted their behaviour when dealing with team counterparts. Although cross-cultural research implies that culture-bound negotiating methods are common, the study finds that in team–solo discussions, individuals discard their culture-bound negotiation style and instead adapt to the strategies used by their team counterparts. Furthermore, role assignment has little influence on behavioural adaptation; individual buyers adapt to selling teams just as much as individual sellers adapt to buying teams. Individual earnings grow as a result of increased employment of integrative methods, but only if the competing teams have high degrees of collectivism. However, this phenomena only occurred when selling teams and solitary buyers interacted.


Key Learnings
By doing a comparative analysis we were able to get a context for more complex analysis among the three papers and how the findings relate to each other. We've also identified a few issues that need to be considered during negotiations, such as how to handle intercultural talks and how to use religious values in business negotiations.



Problem Statement-
The product in question here is handmade Jute bags and cloth bags made by the SHG in Purulia-1. These bags are currently prices at over Rs. 100 which makes them costly to sell to bulk buyers who may use them in various applications such as shopping bag etc. 
Another area of concern is the margins which are available to the workers of the SHG. Being handmade these products are time consuming while producing and also difficult to achieve Economies of scale making them uncompetitive as compared to factory made products both in terms of price as well as scale of production.
The solution to this problem as identified by our group is to cater to a niche segment by offering the range of jute bags having a flavour of local Bengali tradition. The platforms to be employed is Instagram and IndiaMart. In these platforms there would be an option to communicate directly with the representative of the SHG who can take orders and fulfil the same via its products.


8.	Assessing the Outcome/ Initial Contribution of your project 
8.1	Provide details on the Outcome/ Initial Contribution of your SSR project to the stakeholders (e.g. underprivileged communities; the environment; etc.).

8.2	During the submission of your “Implementation Plan”, you were advised as follows: “Keeping in view the “Problem Definition” and “Deliverable”, assess the starting point or “Initial Condition” with respect to the exact area of intervention.

8.3	Now, undertake a follow-up assessment towards the end of your SSR project to record the “Contribution” of your SSR project on the community when compared against the “Initial Condition”. 

8.4	In other words, try and assess the “Contribution” of your SSR project for the community/ cause your team is working for and analyse the outcome/initial impact of your SSR project. 

8.5	Is there any way in which the ‘initial contribution’ that you could make (if at all!) through your SSR project can be sustained even after the completion of your SSR project? If yes, explain how and by whom?
 
8.6	Have you contributed anything through your SSR project which will have any carry-forward effect on the stakeholders (e.g. underprivileged communities; etc.)? If yes, explain how.


Initially identifying the demand of Jute and cloth Bag in a specified locality is utmost important. There is a huge scope of Indian jute bag as the best alternative to the plastic bags. India being the market leader in this micro and small enterprise business, have touched around USD 1.9 billion jute bag market value as of year 2020.

As of now local vendors are targeting just the local offline market for immediate customers. And having a limited range of customisation available based on locality needs. There is a lack of huge capital investment and production facility along with lack of branding.

As a result, we've built an internet platform for these members to promote their jute and cloth bags. These online portals will enable them to reach a bigger audience. Also, until now, SHG members have only sold in an offline setting, which has a very restricted audience and reach, and they have never attempted to sell online. As a result, we decided as a group to assist them in selling their products online. We'll teach them the fundamentals of online marketing because, as we can see, it's becoming more popular by the day. So, in order to be successful in this industry, these SHG members will need to understand online marketing at some point. As a result, we've decided to teach them about online marketing.

We have decided to create an Instagram and IndiaMart account to promote the products. Instagram is basically more personalized marketing whereas through IndiaMart we will sell these products in bulk to wholesalers.


We believe that throughout the course of the eight weeks, we have gained a better understanding of the issues in rural areas and how we can improve those conditions. At the same time, we assisted the staff in becoming acquainted with online marketing. We have taught the following things to the staff so that they are well-versed in the fundamentals of online marketing. -
We set up an Instagram and IndiaMart account for them, as well as teaching them how to create in the future.
We showed them how to make posts, videos, and reels, among other things.
We showed them how to check their messages and respond to them.
Taught them how they can deliver the products once the order is received?
We taught them how to make a transaction (through Paytm).

Yes, we believe our SSR project will be sustainable. Because all the team needs is a smartphone to access these online accounts, and if they have one, I believe we have taught them the most of the work and they can continue working. All of the ladies who have been taught online marketing are capable of carrying out the responsibilities.

Yes, we think that we have contributed through our project which will have carry-forward effect on the stakeholders. The online platform that we have suggested will give more visibility to their products. Through these platforms it will reach to wider audience which in time will results in higher sales. Also, we have help the team ladies to take up digital mode to run their business which will definetly help them in future. With time, if the respose is good on these online platforms, they can also sell their products on big e-commerce platforms like Amazon and Flipkart.


About the company
Unilever PLC is a multinational consumer goods company founded in 1929.
Its products are sold in more than 190 countries. 
They  have over 400 household name brands.
As of March 2022 Unilever has a market cap of $122.49 Billion. 
Unilever has a product type divisional organizational structure. The organization is divided into components based on their product focus. 


Unilever PLC is a British multinational consumer goods company. It was founded on 2 September 1929, by the merger of Margarine Unie and Lever Brothers. Currently its products are sold in more than 190 countries. Also, they  have over 400 household name brands. As of March 2022 the market cap of Unilever is $122.49 Billion. And thirteen brands with sales of over one billion euros. Unilever is organised into three main divisions: Foods and Refreshments; Home Care; and Beauty & Personal Care. Unilever has a product type divisional organizational structure. The organization is divided into components based on their product focus. Earlier they were using Matrix structure where teams report to multiple leaders. But few years back they have changed it to divisional structure. Unilever is one of the 1st consumer good company to adopt digital technologies. Its R&D department is leading the charge on digital, providing new tools to improve the speed, efficiency, and quality of our innovation processes. Unilever's digital transformation strategy is to build technology and data analytics infrastructure so that it may communicate directly with a billion customers. Unilever has automated over 700 operational procedures, saving time and money. 


About the Project Partner
District Rural Development Cell (DRDC), Purulia
It is the principal organ at the district level to oversee the implementation of National Rural Livelihood Mission.
DRDC is responsible for poverty alleviation programs which are implemented on a decentralized basis.
They are in charge of overseeing a variety of self-help groups (SHG).
They assess SHGs' performance and then provide them with a variety of services, such as assisting them with bank loans, setting up stalls to market their wares, and so on.

About the Project
We have collaborated with a marketing sangha that works with SHGs.
SHGs are involved in production of the following products: Ghee, Jute Bag, Jute Mats, Cloth bags, Wax Candle, Jam, Jelly, Snacks, Pickle etc.
Focus on Jute and Cloth bags.

Situation
Raw Material
Ordered at local shop in Purulia by Team
Local Shop orders it from shops in Kolkata and deliver it to Team in Purulia
Total Raw Material cost is around 110 Rupees per Jute bag and + logistic cost
Ordered once in 4 to 6 month
Stored at team member’s houses

Team Size and contribution
Each Team is consisting of around 10 to 12 people 
Each team members pay equally first for the ordering of raw material
There are 282 teams in the marketing sangha which makes different products
There are ten teams which makes Jute bag and one member from each team is responsible for making it
They can make around 2000+ plus jute bags in each month

Pricing and selling of Jute bags
Selling price depends upon the quality of the bags, price ranges from 110 to 300 depending upon the quality and design
They sell their jute bags at 160 rupees each and makes around 40 rupees per jute bags.
Team members first invest in jute bags by their own and after selling it, they divide it among themselves


Problem Statement
The product in question here is handmade Jute bags and cloth bags made by the SHG in Purulia-1. These bags are currently prices at over Rs. 100 which makes them costly to sell to bulk buyers who may use them in various applications such as shopping bag etc.  
Another area of concern is the margins which are available to the workers of the SHG. Being handmade these products are time consuming while producing and also difficult to achieve Economies of scale making them uncompetitive as compared to factory made products both in terms of price as well as scale of production.


Execution and Delivery 
Instagram platform:
It will help to promote the products and reach larger audience.
Selling through the middlemen reduces margin for SHG. Instagram will help them to sell directly which result in higher margin. They can use this increased margin for further investment to make different kind of bags.
Training to create post for Instagram, how they can promote, and other features helped them to gain confidence to use it further.

IndiaMart platform:
SHG can sell their products (Jute and cloth bag) in bulk through IndiaMart. It will reduce their costs.
As there is a window available of 1-2 week to deliver the product, once the order is placed, SHG can produce the required number of bags during that period if they are short. It will also provide them more control on the inventory and procurement of materials.
Training will help SHG, to understand wholesaler’s requirement properly and they can also check different type of bags available and accordingly they can also try to make them if there is any such requirement.

Steps for execution and delivery of your project


Contribution to stakeholders 
We believe that throughout the course of the eight weeks, we have gained a better understanding of the issues in rural areas and how we can improve those conditions. At the same time, we assisted the staff in becoming acquainted with online marketing. We have taught the following things to the staff so that they are well-versed in the fundamentals of online marketing. -
We set up an Instagram and IndiaMart account for them, as well as teaching them how to create in the future.
We showed them how to make posts, videos, and reels, among other things.
We showed them how to check their messages and respond to them.
Taught them how they can deliver the products once the order is received?
We taught them how to make a transaction (through Paytm).

Recommendation for the stakeholders
They should continue to sell their products online using various online channels, and they can subscribe to Premium plans to expand their reach and visibility.
We also urge that the team remain flexible when it comes to bag designs. Because the customer's preferences change over time. As a result, they should be adjustable enough to meet market demands.
They can try to sell their product on larger platforms like Amazon and Flipkart if the response rate on Instagram and IndiaMart is good.
Working on a baseline content roadmap for scheduling posts and agreeing on the frequency of posting should be part of the Instagram posting strategy. After the campaign, they should continue to invest in social media analysis tools to track leads, convert leads, optimise social media efforts, and develop actionable and effective growth strategies.




1.	Reflect on your SSR journey and share the understanding you gathered regarding the people you were exposed to. Share your personal thoughts regarding their situation, their “unmet needs” and their aspirations in life. (5 marks).
So we were working with bengali community people. Our partner organization was DRDC Purulia which is the principal organ at the district level to oversee the implementation of National Rural Livelihood Mission. DRDC is responsible for poverty alleviation programs which are implemented on a decentralized basis. They are in charge of overseeing a variety of self-help groups (SHG). They assess SHGs' performance and then provide them with a variety of services, such as assisting them with bank loans, setting up stalls to market their wares, and so on.
Under these SHGs there were women enterpreneurs who prepare locally made products such as Food beverages, Jute and Cloth Bags. SO we were working with those womens who were responsible for manufacturing Jute and Cloth bags. Basically these women sell there products in nearby local areas i.e. in offline mode. They don't have the basic understanding of online selling. So we as a group have provided them an platform to sell their products in online mode through Instagram and IndiaMart.
These people have very basic needs. They just want to help their spouses in whatever way possible. They have the basic resources to make this local products. All the raw materials are available in the district itself. So, they don't have to go anyplace.
Only problem they found themselves in demand. As these are mostly rural areas, people don't spend that much of amount often. So due to which the sales are less in these areas. The Jute and Cloth bags have limited use, so they didn't get orders often enough. Its very fluctuating.
So we assisted the staff in becoming acquainted with online marketing. We have taught the things to the staff so that they are well-versed in the fundamentals of online marketing.




2.	What are your key takeaways from your SSR experience as a human being and as a future business leader or manager? (5 marks)
As MBA students our main focus is to run the business. So, throughout this course we have interacted with ground level people who do the hardwork. 
We have understand their stories, their requirements, needs, expectations. We have explored the conditions of rural India and how people lives there.
We understood the basic requirements that these people needs and that has made us realize the imporatnce of being responsible. How to contribute to the backward section of the society so they can get their basic needs satified. These people don't have high expectations they just want their basic needs to be met.
Through this course we have worked on different Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs). We have worked on SDG-4 which is quality eductaion. We have provided online tutorials to these women enterpreneurs so they can access Online Market. Through this they can sell their products anywhere in the country.
Also we have worked on SDG-10 wjich is Reducing Inequality. By providing them an platform we have made them aware that anyone can sell their products throughout the country. There are no barriers. We have made them realize their potential and what they can dream off.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TBVss5711QM
https://lms.elearnmarkets.com/my-courses







Coursera 
I am a student from India and want to learn AWS. I think it will be beneficial for my work. But I’ve no job of my own to carry the expenses to pay for the certificate of this course. I live only for my scholarship, it is very much difficult for me to gather such amount of money for the certificate. Financial Aid will help me take this course without any adverse impact on my monthly essential needs. So I’m badly in need of this financial aid. I want to take this course as I want to learn. This course will boost my job prospects after graduation from my institute. It will help perform better in understanding and learning this technology and give me an edge over my competitors. A verified certificate will attach credibility to the certificate I receive from this course. I plan to complete all assignments on or before time as I have done in previous Courses. Also, I intend to participate in Discussion Forums, which I have found to supplement my learning immensely in the other online courses I have taken on Coursera. I also plan to grade assignments that are to peer-reviewed which I believe will an invaluable learning opportunity.


My main career goal is to learn every day. I really want to learn and to progress in my career. In IT , it requires constant learning and improving. Taking this course will help me to learn and study this AWS and also to implement it. It can help me advance in my knowledge. This course will help me in defining AWS, understanding how AWS could potentially impact our business and industry, to write a thought leadership piece regarding use cases and industry potential of AWS, explain AWS to clients, friends, joining a community of economists, business leaders, entrepreneurs, and technologists that are shaping this technology as we speak. Identifying which aspects of AWS seem most important and relevant to us, Walking away with a strong foundation in where AWS is going, what it does, and how to prepare for it. AWS course will help me achieve it to learn. Courses on Coursera helped me to greatly increase my  knowledge about  the various fields of  technology.


I don’t possess a good financial condition at this stage to afford for this course for the above-mentioned reasons. I don’t have enough money to invest in my education, I can invest only my time now.

https://github.com/Ebazhanov/linkedin-skill-assessments-quizzes