Affordable healthcare in India
https://dare2compete.com/blog/gd-topic-analyzing-affordable-healthcare-in-india

Will Gig economy drive the future of employment?
https://dare2compete.com/blog/gd-topic-will-gig-economy-drive-the-future-of-employment
Definition, Comparison with traditional job system, Rise in Gig because of tech, You can decide work life balance.

Are bank mergers in India good for the economy?
https://dare2compete.com/blog/are-bank-mergers-good-for-india-and-its-economy
Advantages, Disadvantages

FDI in retail - Pros and cons
https://dare2compete.com/blog/fdi-in-retail-pros-and-cons

Are online discounts killing e-commerce?
https://dare2compete.com/blog/gd-topic-are-online-discounts-killing-e-commerce

Bullet trains in India soon! Do we really need them?
https://dare2compete.com/blog/bullet-trains-in-india-soon-do-we-really-need-them

Is India doing enough for cybersecurity?
https://dare2compete.com/blog/is-india-doing-enough-for-cybersecurity






Group discussion (GD) on abstract topics

Zero
Numerical Significance: When put before any no. it is of no use but when put at the end of a no. its value increases by 10 times.
Binary Significance: Zero is one of the two digits used in binary coding.
A new beginning: Zero represents the low points or failures in life. It represents situations where we feel low and of no importance but it also holds a positive significance as the low in life points are the triggers to overcome pessimism and work dedicatedly to achieve great heights.
Zero is the middle or starting point of everything.


Change is the only constant
We all face changes every day – whether it is a simple change in the weather, our schedule or expected change of seasons.
This is the only constant in life, the only thing we can be sure will happen.
Example of Nokia and Apple


Red
Each coin has two sides, similarly red has its own significance. It is associated with war, blood, anger but it also has good side which resemblance desire for love, peace and passion. It represents our will to survive.
Red as strength- In Indian culture it is considered as a symbol of good omen. During pujas and all weuse red color cloths, sindoor and by this color only we draw swastika. It is an attention seeker. It considered the color of power, love and affection. Fruits and vegetables are red which are healthy.
Everyday we see red color in traffic, redchillies, teachers use red pens to correct us and show where we have gone wrong.


Social networking: Boon or bane?
Just like arteries and veins are required to pump blood throughout our body in order maintain our survival, similarly in today's world social media has such a important lifeline . 
Social Media has not only reshaped communication industry but has also redefined the ways in which we communicate and express. 
It is a platform which enables people to interact, connect, socially adhere to other people around the world. 
Facebook has 2 billion+ users globally

Positive Impacts- 
Learning- 3,4 hrs on screen
Marketing- Advertising, marketing, 
Interaction- Day to day status, New people to interact
Mass Awareness- PM Modi

Negative Impacts-
Cyber bullying
Hampers Privacy
Deteriorates Productivity
Addiction - obese, person to person decrease, eye problem,
Constant exposure to social media has made people compare their lives with others who project their life as perfect. This decreases happiness levels and also can lead to self-esteem issues.


Blue
It is associated with natural elements such as water and sky. Blue is one of the primary colours of pigments and traditional colour theory. The English use blue to refer to the human emotion of sadness.


Pink
When we think of Pink, the first thing that comes to our mind is that this color is associated with girls. Pink is associated with femininity and beauty from 1950s approximately. Before 1950s, Pink was associated with boys as it is a stronger color, and blue is associated with girls as it is a delicate color. But later the switch took place.
There is a lot of criticism on associating the color pink with women. It is like gender stereotyping as pink is associated with calmness and giving care.
It is believed that the switch happened when Nazis forced gay men to wear pink badges. Form that time, pink color is perceived as non-masculine color. Now, LGBT+ community associate themselves with pink color with pride.
And the consequence of all these things is that Pink is used as a symbolic color for women and LGBT+ community.
Pink ribbon is used to symbolise breast cancer awareness. This color is chosen to convey the empowerment of women.
According to one research, almost 80% of the older people both men and women told that their favorite color is Pink. However for most of them the favorite color was different when they were younger.


Work- Life Balance is a Myth
Apart from work one needs time for family, social circle, personal interests or hobbies etc. The changing work conditions and desire for better living standards have given rise to long working hours. This has resulted in a misbalance between work life and other aspects of life.
The emergence of globalization, mobility and 24*7connectivity and support has made the concept of a 'work-life balance' outdated. People working with clients of different time zone face major challenges in maintaining work-life balance.
The desire for better living standards and senior positions make employees work harder and even for extended hours, which results in a poor work-life balance.
In some of the developing countries due to availability of cheap labors employers tend to exploit employees and make them work for more than stipulated work hours.
To make ends meet some people take multiple jobs that ultimately leave no time for other things.

Work- Life Balance can be achieved
Organizations are continuously making efforts to make work places better and happier. They do understand the need for a work –life balance and are employing various techniques such as flexible timings, multiple shifts to choose from, remote working etc.
According to Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, instead of viewing work and life as a balancing act, it is more productive to view them as two integrated parts. According to him "It actually is a circle. It's not a balance."


Ethics or Profit?
https://www.mbauniverse.com/group-discussion/topic/abstract-topics/ethics-or-profit
Public/Private or NGO
For Public/Private company the main reason they are in business because to serve the customers and generate revenue for the stakeholders. it is unethical for it to be not profitable. A company that cannot make profits is misspending the available resources. It is the liability of the company to pay back to the creditors, its shareholders and employees. A company resulting in losses upset the economy, promotes inefficiency and most importantly, does not contribute towards social responsibility.
For NGOs it is ok to be ethical but not make profit.


Did Government did the right thing while imposing Lockdown?
Yes, 1st wave casualities were less, no. of deaths were less, situation was in control but during the 2nd wave most of the cities were open and we know the scenarion everyday around 3.5 lakh to 4 lakh cases were coming and scarcity of hospital beds and oxygen cylinders it was total chaos. So the reason of lockdown was very effective and it is not that government has taken steps to provide to poorers, there were many free rations were given to card holders for surviving.



https://www.mbauniverse.com/group-discussion/topic.php
https://dare2compete.com/blog/group-discussion-topics-2020-get-ready-for-a-nip-and-tuck-affair
