What is Advertising?
“The nonpersonal communication of information, usually paid for and usually persuasive in nature, about products (goods and services) or ideas by identified sponsors through various media.”




What does adversting do?
Inform
Persuade
Remind




Two schools of thought in advertising
The Creatives – who believe that art inspires the customers to buy
The Pragmatists – who sell based on facts and come armed with reams of research




How to do Media Planning?
1 Target Audience
2 Meaningful Message
3 Advertise in the Right Places
4 Diversify your Media Platforms
5 Monitor Your Ads

Developing the Media Plan
Market Analysis
Media Objectives
Media Strategies
Selecting media mix
Budget and media planning
Evaluation and follow up

Brand Development Index
Brand Development Index quantifies how well a brand performs within a specific group of customers, compared with its average performance among all customers.
The Brand Development Index helps marketers identify strong and weak segments (usually demographic or geographic) for individual brands.
		Percentage of brand to total U.S. sales in market
BDI = 	-------------------------------------------------  * 100
		Percentage of total U.S. population in market

Category Development Index

CDI = 	Percentage of total product category sales in market
		----------------------------------------------------  * 100
		Percentage of total U.S. population in market


Challenges of Media Planning
Insufficient information
Staying updated with marketing trends
Time pressures
Measuring effectiveness and optimization
Integrating results across various channels
Budget restrictions

GRPs
A Gross Rating Point, or GRP, is a measurement of audience size.
GRP = Reach X Frequency


TRPS
A target rating point ( TRP)(or television rating point for televisions) is a metric used in marketing and advertising to indicate the percentage of the target audience reached by a campaign or advertisement through a communication medium.


Pro's and Con's of Different Channels
Television
Mass coverage					Low selectivity
High reach						Short message life
Sight, sound, motion			High absolute cost
Low cost per exposure			High Production Cost
Attention getting				Clutter


Radio
Local coverage					Audio only
Low cost						Clutter
High frequency					Low attention getting
Flexible
Low production cost
Well segmented audience


Magazine
Segmentation potential			Long lead time for ad placement
Quality reproduction			Visual only
High information content		Lack of Flexibility
Longevity
Multiple readers


Newspaper
High coverage								Short life
Low cost									Clutter
Short lead time for placing ads				Low attention getting
Ads can be placed in interest sections		Poor reproduction quality
Timely (current ads)
Can be used for coupons


Outdoor
Location specific				Short exposure time
High repetition					Short ads
Easily noticed					Local Restrictions


Internet
Targeting specific customers					Privacy Risk
Lower cost										Limited Space for Ads
Full control with accurate statistics			Declining ad clicks
Improved customer interaction
Wide range of formats



Sales Promotion
A direct inducement that offers an extra value or incentive for the product to the sales force distributors or ultimate consumer with the primary objective of creating an immediate sale.

Types of Sales Promotion
1 Google My Business offer posts
	Google My Business account dashboard allows you to create four different types of social posts Offers, Updates, Events, and Products. Google My Business promotions allow you to reach customers who find your business on Google Maps and Search which is often when they have the highest intent.

2 Free samples
3 Buy one, get one free promotions
4 Cashback promotions
5 Lifestyle Discounts
6 Flash sales and discounts
7 Vouchers and coupons
8 Free shipping and returns
9 Loyalty program promotions
10 Social media contests and giveaways
11 Referral Discounts




Benefits of Sales Promotion
Increase Product Awareness
Promote new product
Moving aging product
Increase sales volume
Keep audience engaged
Activate dormant customers
Attract new customers
Customer satisfaction
Gain audience insights
Stand our from competitor


Celebrity Endorsement
Example- Nike and Lux

Benefits of Celebrity Endorsements
• Enhances the brand awareness and brand recall as celebrities have huge fan followings
• Helps in establishing a new product or brand
• Benefits by creating associations
• Enhances brand credibility
• Helps in category expansions

Celebrity can help brands come out of crisis
• In 2003, some customers complained about finding worms in Cadbury Dairy Milk chocolates.
• To communicate the improvement to people, brand roped in Amitabh Bachchan as its brand ambassador. age groups. He represents traits like trustworthiness, hard work, commitment, and fairness. His endorsement helped the brand in regaining the trust of people.

Disadvantages of Celebrity Endorsements
Sourav Ganguly- Fortune Oil
David Beckham- Brylcrym Gel
Multiple brand endorsements



Why Influencer Marketing?
1. Trust: influencers win with authenticity
2. Cost: influencers are cheaper
3. Flexibility: influencers make great partners