What is Marketing?
Marketing is the activity, set of institutions, and processes for creating, communicating, delivering, and exchanging offerings that have value for customers, clients, partners, and society at large.
In essence, marketing is the enactment of a mutually beneficial exchange between two parties, a seller and a buyer.

We usually think of the seller as a firm and the buyer as a consumer. However, there are other types of exchanges such as B2B transactions between two firms. In most cases, typically, we think of the seller as offering a product. However, the seller could also offer a number of other things like a service, an idea, or an experience. 

Likewise, we tend to think of the buyer as providing money to acquire these offerings. However, buyers also provide other scarce resources such as their attention, their time, and their energy. Now all of this sounds quite wonderful. Buyers give sellers money in exchange for valuable objects. What could be better? However, there's more to the story. Two key points are missing. First, consumers often don't know what they really want and may be uncertain about the degree to which a particular product will meet their needs. Second, there are typically many firms offering competing products that appeal to the same customer.

These two factors, consumer uncertainty and competing offerings, makes the marketing process quite challenging for both firms as well as consumers. For example, the average US supermarket offers over 100 different types of shampoos. It would take hours to learn about all of their ingredients, potential benefits, and appropriateness for your hair. In order to overcome these challenges, marketers have developed a number of useful tools and techniques. One of the most useful tools in the marketers toolkit is what is commonly referred to as the 4 Ps.

The marketing mix, the 4 Ps, they're really all important. Because what the consumer sees or experiences in the marketplace is really the confluence of a bunch of decisions that got made about what product to sell, at what price, and through what distribution channels, and more importantly, I think, with what messaging strategy. Because all of these decisions combine to this bundle of attributes that we consider to be the essence of the brand. And that's really what, at the end of the day consumers are going to use what they know about the brand, how they feel about the brand. That's how they're going to make those decisions about whether or not a brand is meaningfully distinct in a way that's going to make them choose that brand as opposed to other similar brands in the marketplace.


Product
The first of the four Ps is product. A product is really anything that fulfills a customer need or want. We usually think of a product as a tangible good. However, it could also be a service or even an idea. As we discussed earlier in most categories, there are multiple firms competing for the same customers. So in order to be successful, a product must have a distinctive selling proposition. In marketing, we typically refer to this as a product's positioning.

Innovation is viewed as a critical element in the success of most products. Firms that are more innovative typically enjoy greater market success. Good examples of this are firms such as Apple, Google, and Netflix, which create new products and new business models.
Marketers typically refer to these types of firms as engaging in a radical innovation, which disrupts traditional practices. Since these types of radical innovations are quite rare, most firms engage in what is known as incremental innovation, which focuses more on improving existing products rather than creating entirely new ones.

A brand is a name, symbol, or design that differentiates a firm's product from its competitors. This differentiation can represent both tangible differences such as better taste or intangible differences such as the way a product may make you feel. For example, the Coke brand is differentiated not only by its name but also by the font it uses, the design of the bottle, and the color red. Strong brands help consumers decide what to buy and provides them not only with greater confidence, but also a sense of identity. Brands are also beneficial to firms.

This firm-centered approach is beginning to break down due to the rise of digital tools. For example, the Chicago-based T-shirt manufacturer Threadless has no design staff. All of its Tshirts are designed and selected by its customers using a web-based platform which designs are submitted, viewed, and voted upon.

Customer Co-Creation
Companies can enhance their innovation activities by leveraging the knowledge, skills, and resources of external contributors. This is really the core idea behind customer co-creation. The realization that customers can help companies improve their new product development activities by both contributing ideas as well as selecting ideas for possible new offerings. Now, over the past decade or so, an increasing number of firms are leveraging the power of online platforms to ask customers to contribute and select ideas for their new products. Thus, in our new digital age, customers are not only buying products, they may also help design and develop them. Now, this is a radical departure from the more traditional internally focused innovation processes that most firms used before the digital revolution.

Examples of customer co-creation- Unilever actively solicits external ideas through it's open innovation platform, which can be easily accessed from its website. This platform posts a number of challenges and advise anyone to contribute their ideas about how to solve these problems. While most of these challenges are rather technical in nature, anyone over the age of 17 is invited to submit their ideas. If your idea is selected and put it into an actual product, Unilever will provide you with a share of the commercial proceeds.

Many Co-Creation is failed because of low submissions. As the no. of inputs is less so the firms can't decide which idea to choose. As a result many companies stoped this initiative. Also those customers whose ideas they are rejecting they feel left out so if their idea is not selected they get demoralized and stop sending ideas from next time. So still this model is not that successful but due to fast adoption of digital technologies it will be the future.


So in order to be successful at customer co-creation, firms must both convince their customers to submit ideas and then reject those ideas without alienating them. Second, how to motivate customers to engage in this activity. Research suggests that there are two main methods for motivating customers to engage in co-creation. First, social recognition and second, financial reward. Most firms that are successful in this process typically employ both of these types of rewards. Usually, these rewards go to customers whose contributions have been selected. For example, customers who submit winning designs to Threadless receive a percentage of the sales for any products that use this design and also the intangible benefit of having their name and their design featured as a winner on Threadless's website.


Sharing Economy
One of the most important features of the digital revolution is its ability to connect individuals in ways that we've never been connected before. When we think about how new digital tools foster connection, we usually think about things like smartphones, texting, or social media. Another important outcome of this increased connectivity is the sharing economy. In essence, the sharing economy connects individuals who have things they want to share with others who need these things. This new economy has begun to change the way we travel, what we wear, and how we obtain money. Although most people are probably familiar with the term the sharing economy and may have participated in this economy in some way, this is still a relatively new phenomenon.

So this definition has three key components. Number one, sharing economy firms are inherentlycdigital in nature and run on technology platforms. Second, they grant temporary access rathercthan permanent ownership. And third, the resources that are accessed are often but not alwayscowned by a set of external individuals.

Examples- First of all Uber. When most people think about the sharing economy, Uber is probably the first example that comes to mind. Uber was formed in California back in 2008 and was the world's first car sharing platform. Today Uber has over 75 million riders and 3 million drivers, and earns more than $4 billion a year. In addition to giving rides to passengers, Uber also has a variety of additional offerings. For example, I recently introduced a food delivery service called Ubereats. It also provides transportation by motorcycle in number of countries such as India, Indonesia, and Pakistan. And also has a subsidiary that allows individuals to rent bicycles. And most recently, it launched a new service called Uber Works, right now only in Chicago which seeks to match temporary workers with potential employers.

Second, Rent the Runway, or RTR for short. This company was launched around the same time as Uber back in 2009, but is not as nearly well-known. Now RTR is a sharing platform for designer clothing that allows customers to rent a variety of expensive dresses, sweaters, and jackets for a fraction of the cost of buying these products. In contrast to Uber, RTR actually owns the products that it shares, thus it doesn't have to rely upon external providers. Also rather than paying on a per usage basis, RTR offers a set of different monthly plans. Another unique feature is the fact that RTR is not just a digital operation, it also has a small number of physical retail locations in major US cities such as New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles.

Third, LendingClub. This sharing platform is actually older than both Uber and RTR. It was founded in California back in 2006 and is the world's largest peer-to-peer lending platform. In essence, LendingClub is an Uber for money. Individuals would like to borrow money can create a listing on its website. This listing details information about the borrower, how much they want to borrow, and what they plan to do with this money. Investors, which are people like you and me can provide loans to these individuals in amounts as low as $25. And as investors make money from the interest, which is usually somewhere between 5% to 25%. The average loan on LendingClub is about $15,000 and is usually sourced from among hundreds of small investors. By all accounts, LendingClub is quite successful, has a low rate of default, and also a high return on investment.







Promotion
Conventional Marketing:
Direct mail 
Word of mouth 
Yellow Page ads 
Billboards and bus benches 
Newspaper

These are the old school, tried and true methods to getting the word out about your business. In our current times, the ROI of these methods has significantly decreased, but it’s definitely not zero. Depending on your business and target customer you can still get plenty of business utilizing these tactics.
More than likely, I would not recommend that you start with these tactics — especially if time is of the essence — but they can help fill out and well-rounded marketing campaign.

Online or Digital Marketing: 
Google AdWords 
Facebook/Instagram ads 
Banner advertising 
Email newsletters/marketing


Content Marketing: 
Video content including interviews, vlogs, documentaries 
Podcasts 
Blog Posts 
Pictures including posts on Instagram and Facebook


One-on-One Marketing
Cold calling 
Cold emails 
Door knocking 
Setting up a booth at a fair, store or market


Making a Referral System
When growing a startup that only a few people are aware of, networking is essential. To help boost your networks and help your business reach more people who are interested, create a referral system. Offer the referrer a percentage off incentive of their next purchase when they give out a referral code. This will help you get leads and enable you to permeate networks that you wouldn't otherwise be able to with a limited marketing team.



The main goal of most promotional campaigns is to persuade customers to buy a firm's products instead of its competitors. Thus marketers often think of promotion as a form of persuasion and employ a number of persuasion tactics, such as celebrity endorsements, humor or scientific claims.
There are two main routes to persuasion. First, the central route, which is more cognitive in nature, and second, the peripheral route, which is more emotional in nature.
the central route is effective when customers have the ability and motivation, the process a persuasion message. And persuasion will occur when they find that information to be newsworthy and believable. In contrast, the peripheral route is more effective with customers lack ability and motivation to process the message.


User Generated Content
Digital tools have democratize the promotional landscape, and this is the basic idea behind user generated content, or UGC for short. 

UGC often occurs without a firm's active encouragement or even approval, such as when travelers post reviews about restaurants and hotels on websites like Travelocity.com. 

GoPro. This California company develops and sells high definition video cameras. Perhaps you own one. These cameras are compact, durable, and relatively inexpensive, and often used by extreme sports enthusiast like mountain bikers, wind surfers, and skydivers to capture their adventures. GoPro strategically uses UGC by holding contests. The ask their customers to submit photos or videos that they've taken with their cameras. The submissions provide a steady stream of content to GoPro's various social media sites, and also provides a very persuasive form of promotion by showing potential customers the value of having a GoPro camera.

Warby Parker. This is an American manufacturer and retailer of eyeglasses. They have a few physical retail locations, but they do most of their business online. This company offers a service called Home Try-On, in which they mail their customers five different pairs of glasses. They could then try them on for five days and send the ones that they don't want back to the company. Now, Warby Parker actively encourages these customers to take photos of themselves wearing these different glasses and sharing them on social media using the hashtag Warby Home Try-On.






Placement
Distributors and Retailers

But Online Retailing has taken over everything.
Even touch and feel products are sold online.
Most Retailers have their own websites. They are shifting to Omni- Channel Retailing. Examples- Big Bazaar





Pricing
Cost based Pricing (Earlier)
Value based Pricing 
Competition based Pricing
