What is Marketing?
Marketing is "the set of activity, and processes for creating, communicating, delivering value to the customers, clients, partners, and society at large".
Marketing refers to activities a company undertakes to promote the buying or selling of a product, service, or good.




Questions-

Who is your Ideal customer?
Everyone” is not your ideal customer. People create solutions to solve people’s problems. And everyone doesn’t have the same problem. Your solutions, products or services might be used by a broad audience, but the customers who really resonate with your solution and reflect the highest net promotion, profitability and retention, that's our Ideal customer.
They Happily Pay For What You Offer
They Appreciate What You Do For Them
They Are Easy to Communicate With
They Keep Coming Back
They Recommend You to Others




How to find your Ideal customer?
Demographics – the “What”
At the most basic level, you’ll want to define the common circumstances of our target population. This includes everything from age, gender, and geographic location, to occupation, income level, and even their marital or family status. This is going to quickly narrow your scope so you can focus your efforts with the highest probability.

Psychographics – the “Why”
Taking things a step further, you also need to consider the social and psychological aspects of your ideal customers so you can target them more easily. Consider their preferences, concerns, aspirations, fears, personality type, approach to life, values, and even worldviews if necessary.

Communication – the “How”
In order for your marketing efforts to have the biggest impact, you need to be sure you’re reaching your ideal customers through the best communication channels. How do they receive information and interact socially with the world around them.

Big Picture – the “Who”
When all of these factors come together, they form a clear picture of who your ideal customers really are. Even though it does take some work to truly find out which ones they are, once you know, your business will begin to thrive off of these relationships.




What is Surrogate Marketing?
Surrogate means substitute. Its marketing strategy is also similar.
Surrogate marketing is a promotional strategy used for promoting banned products like alcohol or cigarettes in the market. The banned products are advertised in an indirect manner or masked under another product. You show surrogate products to the audience to actually promote banned products.
For Example- Bagpiper is an Indian brand and it’s one of the best whiskey brands in India. It advertises its products through its surrogate product – Bagpiper Club Soda.
Officer’s Choice is an Indian brand and one of the largest spirit brands in the world. It promotes its products through its surrogate product – Playing Cards, due to which the targeted audience gets to know about this brand.
McDowell’s by using Water and Soda. Kingfisher by Water and Bacardi by Music! 




What is Value Based Marketing?
Values-Based Marketing is an appeal to a customer's values and ethics. It shifts marketing from a product-centric approach to a customer-centric one (Chron). It is important for companies to realize that the modern buyer cares about a brand's values as much as, if not more than, its products.
When you promote certain values within your brand or align yourself with a specific cause, it makes you more relatable and appealing to your target market.
While many brands claim to promote certain values, the ones who really stand out when it comes to values based marketing are the ones that go the extra step further and actually lead by example.  In example, Kraft Foods changed its advertising when market research revealed a shift in consumer opinions relating to direct promotions of junk food to children.  Kraft’s customer centric marketing goals lead it to change its marketing strategy entirely.  “Our relationship with consumers is about trust. If you don’t align with society and you get out of step with that, then you’re going to destroy shareholder value,” 
It is so important to let your market know what is behind the business and what fundamentally drives you, apart from the bottom line. 
"If people believe they share values with a company, they will stay loyal to the brand.”




What are 4A's, 5C's and 8P's of Marketing?
Jagdish Sheth and Sisodiya developed this 4 A's to understand the customer-centric marketing management.
Acceptability-
It says that a product or service offering must meet or exceed the needs and expectations of customers in a given target market. Acceptability has two dimensions – functional acceptability and psychological acceptability. Functional acceptability refers to the “objective” performance attributes of a product or service. Does the product have the features that customers in the target market expect? Is is reliable? Does it perform as expected?
Psychological acceptability refers to the more “subjective” attributes of a product or service. We often see psychological acceptability associated with so-called “luxury” brands. So for example, a mid-priced automobile may be as objectively functional as a vehicle of comparable size made by Mercedes or BMW. But those brands are more psychologically acceptable to a certain segment of buyers.

Affordability-
Affordability refers to whether customers in the target market are economically able and psychologically willing to pay a product’s price. As this definition indicates, affordability also has two dimensions – economic affordability and psychological affordability.

Economic affordability refers to whether the potential customers in the target market have sufficient economic resources to pay a product’s price. Psychological affordability refers to a customer’s willingness to pay, which is primarily determined by a customer’s perception of the value he or she will obtain from a product or service relative to the cost of the product or service.

Accessibility-
It describes whether customers can easily acquire and use a product or service. The two dimensions of Accessibility are availability and convenience.

Availability measures whether a selling company has enough of a product to match customer demand. Convenience refers to how easy it is for potential customers to acquire a product or service. Robert Woodruff, the former chairman of Coca-Cola, captured the essence of Accessibility when he said in 1923 that Coca-Cola should always be “within an arm’s length of desire.”

Awareness-
It refers to whether customers are adequately informed about a product’s attributes and benefits in a way that persuades potential buyers to give the product a try and reminds existing users why they should continue to purchase a product. The two dimensions of Awareness are product knowledge and brand awareness. The basic idea here is that most potential customers will not buy unless they have a positive perception of the brand and adequate information regarding the specific product or service.




5C's
5 C’s of marketing is a situation analysis framework for helping you determine the strengths and weaknesses of your brand, relative to the field in which you operate.
Company
This involves an analysis of the company’s product line, its culture, goals and objectives, and image in the market. We also look at the company’s technology and experience.
The main aim here is to determine whether the company is in the best position to meet customer needs.

Collaborators
Collaborators are businesses or entities that can help the company achieve its goals and objectives.
Suppliers and distributors, for example, are collaborators.

Customers
It is important to identify your customers and determine which of their needs you are attempting to satisfy. What tangible and intangible benefits is the customer seeking?
To compete successfully in the marketplace, you need to know what the motivation behind your customers’ purchases is. 
Possible areas of research are market size, market growth, market segments, purchasing frequency, and seasonal factors.

Competitors
Above all, you need to know who you are competing against in meeting your customers’ needs. Is the other company a potential threat or an active competitor? How many of them are there?
What are your rivals’ weaknesses and strengths? Is there anything you can do regarding those weaknesses and strengths?

Climate
When looking at climate, we are assessing macro-environmental factors, i.e., external factors. The economic environment, political environment, and regulatory environment, for example, are part of the ‘climate.’
Society’s fashions and trends, i.e., the social/cultural environment, are also part of the ‘climate.’




8P's
Businesses use the marketing mix to determine how to promote and position their products to appeal to their target audiences. However, marketing services – rather than products – requires a different approach. Unlike products, which are tangible, services are not something customers can hold in their hands. As a result, it's more difficult to convey the benefits and worth of a service and persuade customers to make a purchase.
The original marketing mix consisted of product, price, place and promotions. Over the years, marketers added additional elements to the marketing mix, including people, process, physical evidence and philosophy. When you market services, it's critical to understand how the marketing mix needs to shift to accommodate the intangibility of the offering.

The marketing mix elements not only need to make the service appealing for customers, but they also have to address other issues. According to Boundless Marketing, the intangibility of a service makes it difficult for customers to know what they will be getting. For example, a haircut is a service. However, customers do not have a clear idea of the result until the service is complete. Similarly, services are variable and affected by different elements, such as the people who provide them. A customer's haircut differs based on the stylist.

Defining the Product
The first P is the product the company offers. In the case of a service, businesses need to take special care to identify, define and design the service. By nature, services are perishable; you cannot store a service and use it later. It is delivered at the same time you buy it, like a car wash, for example. Not only that, but the service can also vary based on elements such as how busy the business is or how experienced the service representative is. The benefit of this heterogeneous element is that businesses can offer customizable services based on the customers' needs.
In contrast, businesses also need to create standardization and stability within the service to offer specific results. In this marketing mix example, the car wash must always leave the customer with a clean car, but the business can customize the products or processes it uses to get the car clean.


Setting the Price
The price of the service is what the customer pays the business in return for the offering. When setting the price of a service, businesses consider a number of elements, such as:
The labor involved
The cost of goods used within the service
Overhead costs including ambiance
The demand for the service versus the supply
Competitor pricing
The most important element to consider when setting a price for a service is the value the customer receives from the result. For example, the actual cost to a salon for a haircut may only be $20, but the value to the customer may be five times that. Unlike for products where cost-based pricing often takes a front seat, a value-based pricing strategy is key for services.


Creating the Place
The place is where customers access the product. This not only encompasses where the business is located but also what the business looks like. The entire experience of buying and receiving the service should be considered. For example, a massage therapist's office that is noisy and crowded does not provide a relaxing experience.

When providing access to the service, consider what is most convenient for the buyer and what will give them the result they seek. The business should be physically easy to locate. Once there, the customer should begin the service experience. For example, a massage therapist's office can be located in a busy downtown office, close to parking and public transportation. This makes it easily accessible to the target market. The interior of the office should have mood lighting and calming music to help customers feel the relaxation effects even before the service starts.


Planning the Promotions
Promotion entails how a business communicates its service offering to customers and differentiates it from competitive services. Digital marketing consultant Alberto Carniel points out that the type of promotions a business uses depends on its marketing strategy. Promotional channels include advertising, sales promotion, personal selling, direct marketing and public relations.

Businesses need to determine the best way to reach their target audiences to promote the service. Any promotions should include the benefits the customer will receive from the service and details about what makes this service unique. In a marketing mix example for a tailor, the promotion can include details on how well the clothes will fit. To differentiate this service from all the other tailors, the business can use promotions that include details about the company's unique measurement system or its high-end sewing machine.


Identifying the People
In the service industry, the people providing the service are inseparable from the service itself, according to Boundless Marketing. This is one of the 8 P's of marketing that truly differentiates products from services. As a result, businesses need to position the service provider as an expert.

The marketing strategy should include information on the service provider's experience and positive reviews. The business also needs to invest in customer service training so that the service provider can relate well to clients, build relationships and rapport, de-escalate tense situations and meet emotional needs.


Differentiating the Process
The process is how the business delivers the service to the customer. This includes everything from how the customers are greeted when they enter the business to how they are billed after the service is completed. A formal process enables businesses to offer a standardized level of service for each customer. It also enables businesses to make small customizations within the process to ensure a desired result.

Service-based businesses should create an easy-to-understand customer-facing process and share it in their marketing materials. This way, customers know exactly what to expect when they engage the business.


Producing Physical Evidence
Because services are intangible, businesses need to offer physical evidence of the value customers receive. One way to provide physical evidence is in the ambiance of the place where the service is provided. In a high-end restaurant, for example, the servers may wear formal attire to showcase the luxury and exclusivity of the service.

Another way service-based companies offer physical evidence is through providing small products along with the service. For example, a nail salon may offer a complimentary nail polish with every appointment. By providing physical evidence of value, businesses transform an intangible service into a tangible offering.


Showcasing the Philosophy
One of the 8 P's of marketing, according to the American Camp Association, is philosophy. This is integral to marketing services because it encompasses the "why" element. Since services are directly tied to their service providers, it's essential for customers to understand the mission, vision and values of a business. Why does the business offer this service, and what makes this business unique?

Service-based businesses that promote their philosophies differentiate themselves from their competitors. For example, a mechanic's philosophy may be to help customers reduce the stress associated with their vehicles. A doctor's philosophy may be to ensure each patient feels heard. Learning the philosophy of a business may be the deciding factor for a customer.





How do you reach out to a target customer?
Conventional Marketing:
Direct mail 
Word of mouth 
Yellow Page ads 
Billboards and bus benches 
Newspaper

These are the old school, tried and true methods to getting the word out about your business. In our current times, the ROI of these methods has significantly decreased, but it’s definitely not zero. Depending on your business and target customer you can still get plenty of business utilizing these tactics.
More than likely, I would not recommend that you start with these tactics — especially if time is of the essence — but they can help fill out and well-rounded marketing campaign.

Online or Digital Marketing: 
Google AdWords 
Facebook/Instagram ads 
Banner advertising 
Email newsletters/marketing


Content Marketing: 
Video content including interviews, vlogs, documentaries 
Podcasts 
Blog Posts 
Pictures including posts on Instagram and Facebook


One-on-One Marketing
Cold calling 
Cold emails 
Door knocking 
Setting up a booth at a fair, store or market


Making a Referral System
When growing a startup that only a few people are aware of, networking is essential. To help boost your networks and help your business reach more people who are interested, create a referral system. Offer the referrer a percentage off incentive of their next purchase when they give out a referral code. This will help you get leads and enable you to permeate networks that you wouldn't otherwise be able to with a limited marketing team.




SWOT Analysis
This is a method of analysis of the environment and the company's standing in it.
It is a framework used to evaluate a company's competitive position and to develop strategic planning. 
SWOT is made of two parts: the strengths and weaknesses refer to the internals of a company while the opportunities and threats are external to the company and exist in the environment.

Strengths describe what an organization excels at and what separates it from the competition: a strong brand, loyal customer base, a strong balance sheet, unique technology, and so on. 

Weaknesses stop an organization from performing at its optimum level. They are areas where the business needs to improve to remain competitive: a weak brand, higher-than-average turnover, high levels of debt, an inadequate supply chain, or lack of capital.

Opportunities refer to favorable external factors that could give an organization a competitive advantage. For example, if a country cuts tariffs, a car manufacturer can export its cars into a new market, increasing sales and market share.

Threats refer to factors that have the potential to harm an organization. For example, a drought is a threat to a wheat-producing company, as it may destroy or reduce the crop yield. Other common threats include things like rising costs for materials, increasing competition, tight labor supply and so on.




PESTEL Analysis
PESTEL Analysis (political, economic, social and technological, environmental and legal) is a management method whereby an organization can assess major external factors that influence its operation in order to become more competitive in the market.
Generally, it is more effective with larger organizations that are more likely to experience the effects of macro events.
PESTEL analysis is commonly used in conjunction with SWOT analysis

Political Factors:
These determine the extent to which government and government policy may impact on an organisation or a specific industry. This would include political policy and stability as well as trade, fiscal and taxation policies too.

Economic Factors:
These factors impact on the economy and its performance, which in turn directly impacts on the organisation and its profitability. Factors include interest rates, employment or unemployment rates, raw material costs and foreign exchange rates.

Social Factors:
These factors focus on the social environment and identify emerging trends. This helps a marketer to further understand their customers’ needs and wants. Factors include changing family demographics, education levels, cultural trends, attitude changes and changes in lifestyles.

Technological Factors:
These factors consider the rate of technological innovation and development that could affect a market or industry. Factors could include changes in digital or mobile technology, automation, research and development. There is often a tendency to focus on developments only in digital technology, but consideration must also be given to new methods of distribution, manufacturing and also logistics.

Environmental Factors:
These factors relate to the influence of the surrounding environment and the impact of ecological aspects. With the rise in importance of CSR (Corporate Sustainability Responsibility),this element is becoming more important. Factors include climate, recycling procedures, carbon footprint, waste disposal and sustainability

Legal Factors:
An organisation must understand what is legal and allowed within the territories they operate in. They also must be aware of any change in legislation and the impact this may have on business operations. Factors include employment legislation, consumer law, healthy and safety, international as well as trade regulation and restrictions.
Political factors do cross over with legal factors; however, the key difference is that political factors are led by government policy, whereas legal factors must be complied with.




Porter's 5 Forces
Porter's Five Forces is a model that identifies and analyzes five competitive forces that shape every industry and helps determine an industry's weaknesses and strengths. It is used to identify an industry's structure to determine corporate strategy.

Competition in the Industry
The first of the five forces refers to the number of competitors and their ability to undercut a company. The larger the number of competitors, along with the number of equivalent products and services they offer, the lesser the power of a company. Suppliers and buyers seek out a company's competition if they are able to offer a better deal or lower prices. Conversely, when competitive rivalry is low, a company has greater power to charge higher prices and set the terms of deals to achieve higher sales and profits.

Potential of New Entrants Into an Industry
A company's power is also affected by the force of new entrants into its market. The less time and money it costs for a competitor to enter a company's market and be an effective competitor, the more an established company's position could be significantly weakened. An industry with strong barriers to entry is ideal for existing companies within that industry since the company would be able to charge higher prices and negotiate better terms.

Power of Suppliers
The next factor in the five forces model addresses 	how easily suppliers can drive up the cost of inputs. It is affected by the number of suppliers of key inputs of a good or service, how unique these inputs are, and how much it would cost a company to switch to another supplier. The fewer suppliers to an industry, the more a company would depend on a supplier. As a result, the supplier has more power and can drive up input costs and push for other advantages in trade. On the other hand, when there are many suppliers or low switching costs between rival suppliers, a company can keep its input costs lower and enhance its profits.

Power of Customers
The ability that customers have to drive prices lower or their level of power is one of the five forces. It is affected by how many buyers or customers a company has, how significant each customer is, and how much it would cost a company to find new customers or markets for its output. A smaller and more powerful client base means that each customer has more power to negotiate for lower prices and better deals. A company that has many, smaller, independent customers will have an easier time charging higher prices to increase profitability.

Threat of Substitutes
The last of the five forces focuses on substitutes. Substitute goods or services that can be used in place of a company's products or services pose a threat. Companies that produce goods or services for which there are no close substitutes will have more power to increase prices and lock in favorable terms. When close substitutes are available, customers will have the option to forgo buying a company's product, and a company's power can be weakened.




BCG Matrix
BCG matrix – also known as the Boston or growth share matrix – provides a strategy for analyzing portfolio of products according to growth and relative market share. 
It help companies gain insights on what products best help them capitalize on market share growth opportunities and give them a competitive advantage.
In the four-quadrant BCG matrix template, market share is shown on the horizontal line (low left, high right) and growth rate is found along the vertical line (low bottom, high top). The four quadrants are designated Stars (upper left), Question Marks (upper right), Cash Cows (lower left) and Dogs (lower right).

Dogs. Dogs hold low market share compared to competitors and operate in a slowly growing market. In general, they are not worth investing in because they generate low or negative cash returns. But this is not always the truth. Some dogs may be profitable for long period of time, they may provide synergies for other brands or SBUs or simple act as a defense to counter competitors moves. Therefore, it is always important to perform deeper analysis of each brand or SBU to make sure they are not worth investing in or have to be divested.
Strategic choices: Retrenchment, divestiture, liquidation

Cash cows. Cash cows are the most profitable brands and should be “milked” to provide as much cash as possible. The cash gained from “cows” should be invested into stars to support their further growth. According to growth-share matrix, corporates should not invest into cash cows to induce growth but only to support them so they can maintain their current market share. Again, this is not always the truth. Cash cows are usually large corporations or SBUs that are capable of innovating new products or processes, which may become new stars. If there would be no support for cash cows, they would not be capable of such innovations.
Strategic choices: Product development, diversification, divestiture, retrenchment

Stars. Stars operate in high growth industries and maintain high market share. Stars are both cash generators and cash users. They are the primary units in which the company should invest its money, because stars are expected to become cash cows and generate positive cash flows. Yet, not all stars become cash flows. This is especially true in rapidly changing industries, where new innovative products can soon be outcompeted by new technological advancements, so a star instead of becoming a cash cow, becomes a dog.
Strategic choices: Vertical integration, horizontal integration, market penetration, market development, product development

Question marks. Question marks are the brands that require much closer consideration. They hold low market share in fast growing markets consuming large amount of cash and incurring losses. It has potential to gain market share and become a star, which would later become cash cow. Question marks do not always succeed and even after large amount of investments they struggle to gain market share and eventually become dogs. Therefore, they require very close consideration to decide if they are worth investing in or not.
Strategic choices: Market penetration, market development, product development, divestiture


Using the BCG matrix to strategize
Increase investment in a product to increase its market share. For example, you can push a question mark into a star and, finally, a cash cow.

If you can't invest more into a product, hold it in the same quadrant, and leave it be.

Reduce your investment and try to take out the maximum cash flow from the product, which increases its overall profitability (best for cash cows).

Release the amount of money already stuck in the business (best for dogs).
You need products in every quadrant of your BGC matrix to keep a healthy cash flow and have products that can secure your future.

Retrenchment
The Retrenchment Strategy is adopted when an organization aims at reducing its one or more business operations with the view to cut expenses and reach to a more stable financial position. When a firm decides to eliminate its activities through a considerable reduction in its business operations, in the perspective of customer groups, customer functions and technology alternatives, either individually or collectively is called as Retrenchment Strategy.
Types of Retrenchment Strategies with Examples
Turnaround Strategy
Turnaround strategy is a tool/measure that minimizes the negative trends that impact the company’s performance. It also goes by the name of management measure that could transform the sick business into a healthy position.
The measure also reverses the negative trends like decreasing market share, increasing material cost, lower sales, widening debt-equity ratio, less profitability, working capital issues, negative cash flows, and many other problems. 

Divestment Strategy
A large company that has attained many assets, departments, and product divisions analyzes various divisions and departments’ profitability. Whether they’re contributing to the company’s strategy, or they aren’t. If they aren’t achieving the required results, then you cut them loose.
In other words, divestment strategy means the sale of a portion of your business, asset, and division. Companies apply divestment strategy when turnaround strategy has already failed.

Liquidation Strategy
Liquidation strategy is the extreme level in the retrenchment strategy where you permanently shut down the business and sell all of your assets. Liquidation is the final option of the problems of any business because it has serious outcomes. It results in the form of saying no to every potential opportunity and firing all the employees.
Small businesses usually liquidate. Large companies like suppliers, creditors, trade unions, financial institutions, and government departments don’t liquidate.
For instance, online e-commerce is losing traffic on its store daily. The expenses are increasing than the store’s total earning. The management has no other choice but to liquidate the store and pay off the debt.


BCG of HUL
Stars- Axe, Lux, Lifebouy, Vim, Surf- Excel, Kwality Walls, Kissan Jam
Cash Cows- Clinic Plus, Vaseline, Red Label
Question Marks- Close Up, Pepsodent, Domex, Rin
Dogs- Brooke Bond, Bru




Ansoff Matrix
The Ansoff Matrix, also called the Product/Market Expansion Grid, is a tool used by firms to analyze and plan their strategies for growth. The matrix shows four strategies that can be used to help a firm grow and also analyzes the risk associated with each strategy.

The four strategies of the Ansoff Matrix are:

Market Penetration: This focuses on increasing sales of existing products to an existing market.
Product Development: Focuses on introducing new products to an existing market.
Market Development: This strategy focuses on entering a new market using existing products.
Diversification: Focuses on entering a new market with the introduction of new products.
 
Of the four strategies, market penetration is the least risky, while diversification is the riskiest.

The Ansoff Matrix: Market Penetration
In a market penetration strategy, the firm uses its products in the existing market. In other words, a firm is aiming to increase its market share with a market penetration strategy.

The market penetration strategy can be executed in a number of ways:

Decreasing prices to attract new customers
Increasing promotion and distribution efforts
Acquiring a competitor in the same marketplace

For example, telecommunication companies all cater to the same market and employ a market penetration strategy by offering introductory prices and increasing their promotion and distribution efforts.

 
The Ansoff Matrix: Product Development
In a product development strategy, the firm develops a new product to cater to the existing market. The move typically involves extensive research and development and expansion of the company’s product range. The product development strategy is employed when firms have a strong understanding of their current market and are able to provide innovative solutions to meet the needs of the existing market.

This strategy, too, may be implemented in a number of ways:

Investing in R&D to develop new products to cater to the existing market
Acquiring a competitor’s product and merging resources to create a new product that better meets the need of the existing market
Forming strategic partnerships with other firms to gain access to each partner’s distribution channels or brand
 
For example, automotive companies are creating electric cars to meet the changing needs of their existing market. Current market consumers in the automobile market are becoming more environmentally conscious.

 
The Ansoff Matrix: Market Development
In a market development strategy, the firm enters a new market with its existing product(s). In this context, expanding into new markets may mean expanding into new geographic regions, customer segments, etc. The market development strategy is most successful if (1) the firm owns proprietary technology that it can leverage into new markets, (2) potential consumers in the new market are profitable (i.e., they possess disposable income), and (3) consumer behavior in the new markets does not deviate too far from that of consumers in the existing markets.

The market development strategy may involve one of the following approaches:

Catering to a different customer segment
Entering into a new domestic market (expanding regionally)
Entering into a foreign market (expanding internationally)
For example, sporting goods companies such as Nike and Adidas recently entered the Chinese market for expansion. The two firms are offering roughly the same products to a new demographic.

 
The Ansoff Matrix: Diversification
In a diversification strategy, the firm enters a new market with a new product. Although such a strategy is the riskiest, as both market and product development are required, the risk can be mitigated somewhat through related diversification. Also, the diversification strategy may offer the greatest potential for increased revenues, as it opens up an entirely new revenue stream for the company – accesses consumer spending dollars in a market that the company did not previously have any access to.

There are two types of diversification a firm can employ:

1. Related diversification: There are potential synergies to be realized between the existing business and the new product/market.

For example, a leather shoe producer that starts a line of leather wallets or accessories is pursuing a related diversification strategy.

2. Unrelated diversification: There are no potential synergies to be realized between the existing business and the new product/market.

For example, a leather shoe producer that starts manufacturing phones is pursuing an unrelated diversification strategy.




4 As (developed by Jagdish Sheth)

Acceptability. Your products and/or services meet or exceed customers’ needs and expectations.
Affordability. Your customers can afford your products/services and are willing to pay (perceived value).
Accessibility. Customers can easily buy and use your products/services.
Awareness. Customers have enough information about your product/service’s features and benefits to try them…or continue buying them.
 

4 Cs

Consumer. Do your products/services satisfy customers’ wants and needs?
Cost. The total cost of ownership including actual cost, traveling to buy it, inconveniences (switching from one brand to another), and cost of using (including maintenance).
Convenience. Your products/services are easy to find and buy.
Communication. You develop two-way dialogues with your prospects and customers (usually via social media).
 

5 Cs (Version 1)

Consumers. They are the center of your marketing strategy.
Context. You understand customers’ behavior regarding their wants, needs and desires during the customer journey.
Content. It’s built around context and relates directly to customers’ needs.
Commerce. Give customers what they need before they know they need it.
Convergence. Integrate all aspects of marketing including technology, data, skills, etc.
 

5 Cs (Version 2)

Customer. You understand their wants and needs, then design your products/services to meet those needs.
Company. You know your company is able to meet customers’ wants and needs. This can be determined by a SWOT analysis (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats).
Competition. Know who your competitors are and whether they can meet customer needs better than you. Also, keep track of potential competitors.
Collaborators. What outside sources can help you better meet customers’ needs?
Context. Perform a PEST (Politics, Economics, Social factors, Technology) to determine if and how these issues may affect your ability to meet customers’ needs.
 

4 Ps

Product. The products/services you offer.
Price. Actual costs include list price, discounts, financing, leasing and other factors, plus profit margins. Also, how do your prices compare with competitors?
Place. Your channels of distribution. These include delivery, logistics, and facilities.
Promotion. How you will communicate and sell to customers and prospects including advertising, public relations, social media, flyers, etc.
 

3 Rs

Reach. The number of people who hear about your products/services on a regular basis.
Repetition. How often prospects and customers hear from you during their buying cycle. Some may be ready to buy now, others may wait years.
Relevance. You’re selling what prospects and customers want.
 

5 Ws

Who is your target audience?
What products/services are you marketing?
When are you marketing your products/services?
Where will you market? Store? Online? And which do prospects/customers prefer?
Why are you selling? Create markets? Increase sales? Build your reputation? Extend your reach?




What is Inbound marketing?
Inbound marketing, in simple terms, is the process of helping potential customers find your company. This frequently happens before the customer is even ready to make a purchase, but making contact early can turn into brand preference and, ultimately, leads and revenue. Inbound marketing is a strategy that utilizes many forms of pull marketing—content marketing, blogs, events, search engine optimization (SEO), social media, and more—to create brand awareness and attract new business. Whereas outbound marketing seeks out customers, inbound marketing focuses on visibility, so potential buyers come to you. Instead of “renting attention,” companies employing inbound marketing focus on new methods geared toward building awareness, developing relationships, and generating leads.

The content provided by inbound marketing is educational, entertaining, and welcomed by consumers. When done correctly, inbound marketing can return dramatically better results than traditional marketing that disrupts prospects rather than giving them an open invitation to engage. When consumers find your company this way, it has a stronger influence on their future marketing decisions and their feelings toward your business in general. The best part? Inbound marketing consists of entirely organic leads, so it relies on brains rather than budget.

Inbound marketing has the powerful ability to put customers in the driver’s seat, connecting you with people who are genuinely interested in what you have to say. Aside from lead conversions and customer retention, inbound marketing can do wonders for social media shares, brand awareness, and search engine optimization efforts. A robust inbound marketing program allows customers to engage with your brand at any time. This allows you to generate qualified leads for much less money than traditional marketing. As the creation of data continues to increase—according to IBM, we create 2.6 quintillion bytes of data per day—information abundance and attention scarcity will only continue to climb. The empowered buyer has all the information they need to make a buying decision at their fingertips any time, any place. Detail specs, pricing, and product/service reviews are right in their pocket, not to mention social media’s impact on information sharing. In order to be successful in this evolving landscape, visibility through inbound marketing is key.




What is Outbound Marketing?
Outbound marketing refers to any kind of marketing where a company initiates the conversation and sends its message out to an audience. Outbound marketing examples include more traditional forms of marketing and advertising such as TV commercials, radio ads, print advertisements (newspaper ads, magazine ads, flyers, brochures, catalogs, etc.), tradeshows, outbound sales calls (AKA "cold calls"), and email spam.


Outbound marketing is when a marketer reaches out to people to see if they're interested in a product. For example, this could include door-to-door sales or cold calling where a sales rep or marketer approaches someone without knowing if he or she is even a qualified lead. Inbound marketing is a strategy where you create content or social media tactics that spread brand awareness so people learn about you, might go to your website for information, and then purchase or show interest in your product.
Inbound															Outbound
Pulls in interested readers										Pushes at everybody, regardless of interest
Written for the consumer’s needs								Written for the product’s needs
Interactive and fluid											Inert, one-way
Draws in customers												Seeks out customers
Is part of content consumption									Disrupts content consumption
Natural habitat: blogs, social media, 							Natural habitat: display ads, billboards, telemarketer scripts, magazines, TV ads
opt-in emails, search, influencer marketing						




Segmentation, Targeting, and Positioning (STP)
Segmentation, targeting, and positioning (often referred to as segmentation-targeting-positioning or STP) is a consumer-centric approach to marketing communications. The STP model helps deliver more relevant, personalized messages to target audiences.

1. Segmentation
Segmentation refers to the process of dividing your audience into smaller groups based on certain characteristics. This process allows you to group your individual audience members into similar groups so you can better communicate your products, features, and benefits that may be most relevant to them.

You can segment your audience based on one or more of these criteria:

Demographics, which typically answer the question of who your buyer is (e.g. age, gender, education, location, and profession)
Psychographics, which answer the question of why your buyer buys (e.g. priorities, personality traits, and beliefs and values)
Lifestyle traits, such as hobbies, entertainment preferences, and non-work activities
Behavior, such as brand loyalty, channel preferences, and other shopping habits
Segmentation may sound a little familiar to another process we often discuss here on the HubSpot blog — creating buyer personas. The two are very similar as they help you drill down the most important factors in your target audience.

But where buyer personas help you create a handful customer profiles that represent your broader audience, segmentation allows you to split your audience into countless segments, each of which you can uniquely target.

For example, let’s say Paws & Tails is a Chicago pet-sitting company that offers pet-sitting, dog walking, and boarding services. Given the vast number of pet owners in the city, they need to segment their audience into smaller groups to better understand how to position their services.

Based on their research and current customer base, they split their audience into three main segments:

Segment A is made up of high-income pet owners who work often and need daytime dog walking and pet pop-in visits
Segment B is made up of middle-class individuals and families who travel and need overnight boarding or pet-sitting services
Segment C is made up of older pet owners and retirees who need help caring for their pets

2. Targeting
With your audience segments in hand, it’s time to move on to the targeting phase. First, however, you must decide which segments are worth targeting with your marketing. To decipher this, ask yourself some questions about each segment:

Is this segment composed of enough potential customers to justify targeting? Would it yield enough profits if the segment were to convert?
Is it measurably different from the other segments?
Is it accessible by all members of Marketing and Sales?
Is your company equipped and able to serve the segment? Are there any physical, legal, social, or technological barriers that could prevent that?
Choosing what segments to target is a strategic decision. Thankfully, certain strategic planning models like the PESTLE analysis can help you better understand the viability of each segment.

It takes a lot of work to successfully target a segment of your audience. Whether you’ve identified two segments or ten, don’t feel the need to target more than one segment at once. Plus — targeting one at a time will help you better position your marketing for each specific segment much better.

Following our example from before, Paws & Tails conducts research to better understand its Chicago audience. Paws & Tails finds that Segment A makes up 60% of its market size, Segment B makes up 30%, and Segment C makes up 10%. Moreover, Segment A has a higher average income and is willing to pay more for pet-sitting and walking services. Because of this, they choose to focus on Segment A.

3. Positioning
At this point, you should understand the demographics, psychographics, motivations, and pain points of the segment(s) you’ve chosen to target, which can provide a place to start when it comes to positioning your product or service.

First, take a step back and examine your product or service through the perspective of your chosen segment. If you were in their shoes, why would you choose your product over a competitor’s? What features or benefits are most relevant to you, based on the motivations and pain points you’ve identified?

This information is important to defining your brand positioning and understanding how it stacks up next to your competitors. One way to understand where you, well, stand is by building a positioning map, which is “the visual plotting of specific brands against axes, where each axis represents an attribute that is known to drive brand selection.”

The segment you choose to target should dictate what two attributes you plot on your positioning map. For example, let’s say Paws & Tails decides Segment A selects pet-sitting brands based on two attributes: service area and reliability. Here’s what a brand positioning map (with fictitious brands) may look like.

By understanding 1) what the target segment deems most important for brand selection and 2) where its competitors succeed (and fall short), Paws & Tails is able to identify an open market opportunity and position its marketing to best fit the needs and goals of its audience.






HOW TO USE MARKETING MIX FOR SUCCESSFUL MARKETING STRATEGIES
The first row of the image above represents the competitive advantage (C.A.) from the supply point of view: low costs and consumers’ perceived differentiation. The first column depicts the competitive advantage from the demand: industry and segment. In this scheme, industry is intended as a wider portion of the market compared to a segment.

-----------------------------------------------------------|
C.A. SUPPLY|                 |
-----------|   Low Costs     |   Differentiation           |
C.A. DEMAND|                 |     (Perceived)
-----------|-----------------|-----------------------------|
INDUSTRY   | Cost Leadership |    Differentiation          |
-----------|-----------------|-----------------------------|
SEGMENT    | Focus on cost   |   Focus on Differentiation  |
-----------|-----------------|-----------------------------|


Cost leadership
When a company targets the whole industry and keeps low costs (for both sides: seller and buyer, as described in the 4Cs of marketing mix), the resulting marketing strategy aims at cost leadership.


A cost leader is very efficient in manufacturing and logistics, it works with high volumes and standardized products. Usually, it has a preferential access to raw material and keeps strong relationships with suppliers. It gives incentives according to quantity-based objectives and focuses on low prices.
In a few words, a cost leader only uses one marketing mix.
Its targets are:
Taking control of the whole market (mass marketing);
Limiting the differentiation;
Producing high quantities;
Having low margins (besides, there is no other choice).
A cost leader is not influenced by suppliers thanks to its high quantities of raw material purchased. It is not affected by substitutes thanks to its great sales volume and preferential access to raw material. It continuously tries to decrease costs and offer its products for a cheaper price. 

Examples of cost leaders are Walmart, Auchan and IKEA. 
Recapping the key elements of a cost leadership strategy:
Logistic and production efficiency;
High volume of standard products;
Preferential access to raw material;
Bonuses on quantity target achievements;
Focus on low cost and prices;
Aiming at mass market;
Poor differentiation and markup.


Differentiation
A differentiating marketing strategy aims at increasing brand’s esteem and making unique products/services. Companies which embrace this approach usually invest a lot of money in R&D (research and development) and marketing communication. They must be creative, keep innovating and focus on low quantities, but higher margins.
Differentiators must have multiple marketing mix according to the specific target audience and offering.

How can a differentiator minimize the 5 Porter’s forces?

A differentiator offers unicity and doesn’t copycat competitors. It sells a distinct and excellent experience for which consumers are willing to spend more. Finally, it generates high brand loyalty.
Examples of differentiators are Starbucks or Apple.
Recapping the distinguishing factors of a differentiation strategy:

Product unicity;
Prestige perceived;
Excellent communication;
Consistent innovation;
Low quantity, but high markups.



Focus on costs and focus on differentiation
The last row of the image represents two marketing strategies based on additional focus on the competitive advantage.
If a cost leader aims at a specific segment, it must be a master in lowering its costs in order to succeed (e.g. organic food, energy drinks and the like). That’s why “focus on costs”. 
Instead, a “focus on differentiation” strategy aims at conquering a niche, so the offering must be special and its marketing mix totally tailored.


Ansoff’s growth marketing strategies
The mathematician and business manager Igor Ansoff published his book Corporate strategy in 1965 where he explained basic growth marketing strategies.

Igor Ansoff's corporate marketing strategiesIgor Ansoff's corporate marketing strategies
Igor Ansoff's corporate marketing strategies: market penetration, market development, product development, diversification.
Market penetration is the strategy to adopt when a company wants to acquire more customers in the same market by using the same product/service.
It can lower the prices and generously invest in advertising, PR and communication. For these reasons, a market penetration strategy requires a huge amount of money.

A market development strategy is when a company wants to attack new markets with the same product/service.
The most common tactics are:
Partnering with companies which operate in a different industry, but target the same or similar audience;
Extending the use of the product/service to broaden the target audience.

A company can grow in the same market by making new products with a product development strategy. It has to invest in R&D and continuous field tests to validate new products. 
Usually, the new creations are strictly connected with each other, because they have to target the same group of people. They can be either brand new or upgrades of existing products. 
An example of product development can be a full line of supplements for running. You can have solutions for energy recovery, endurance, training and so on. Plus, you can let consumers choose between capsules or powder. 

A differentiation strategy is when a company wants to expand in different markets with new products. Besides the R&D investments, it has to study a new target audience, acquire additional expertise and make personalized offerings. 
This strategy is risky and expensive, that’s why companies can create joint ventures or merges to compensate the lack of skills, knowledge and equipment.
An example can be Dollar Shave Club which started by selling only razors and now, it covers the whole range of male beauty care: razors, shaving accessories, creams and butters, deodorants and wipes, and shower soaps.




How to build your go-to-market strategy
https://paddle.com/resources/go-to-market-strategy/
Whether you’re launching a new startup or a new product; and regardless of whether you’re following a product-led(A product-led go-to-market strategy puts the product at the heart of growth. Product-led go-to-market strategies are a volume play, with tactics such as a freemium offer designed to attract users first, before turning them into paying customers later.) or sales-led (This tends to be the approach taken when the product is so revolutionary, or complex, or expensive that the buying decision involves many stakeholders and many engagements, over a number of months. The sales process is resource-intensive, and in turn, the business will focus on achieving fewer sales at higher margins.) path to growth, a good go-to-market strategy includes certain core elements.
1. Define the target market 
2. Make your product fit your market (Product market fit) (Value Proposition)
3. Set the right prices and packages (Pricing strategy)
4. Reach (and keep) customers (Distribution and adoption plan)




How do you manage the launch of a new product?
Define the target audience.
Make your product fit your market (Product market fit) (Value Proposition).
Find out all the relevant stakeholders involved.(Suppliers, Distributors etc.)
Know or understand the buying process.
Develop a strategic plan on how to target these buyers and how to reach them and the distribution plan.
Create a timeline for the project.
Form a product launch team.




What is the difference between a consumer and customer?
Ans: Customer is someone who purchases the product. A consumer is someone who consumes/uses the product. For eg. Dog food (Bought by dog owner (customer), consumed by the dog (consumer)). 


	

What is ambush/guerrilla marketing?
Guerrilla Marketing
Guerrilla marketing is a marketing tactic in which a company uses surprise and/or unconventional interactions in order to promote a product or service. Guerrilla marketing is different than traditional marketing in that it often relies on personal interaction, has a smaller budget, and focuses on smaller groups of promoters that are responsible for getting the word out in a particular location rather than through widespread media campaigns. 
Ambush is a type of Guerrilla marketing
Ambush Marketing is one of the unique marketing tactics in which companies/brands tend to advertise their product on the place where the same product is already being advertised by another company or by their competitors. Ambush marketing tactics mostly take place in some big events like Football, cricket, Olympic, Basketball, etc where advertisers don’t pay any kind of sponsorship to the event organizers but they try to grab people’s attention on the same event by promoting their product against their competitors. But it requires creative marketing strategies to make your ambush advertising successful. 
Example- Suppose there is a company called A, who is the official sponsor of a football game and trying to advertise their product men shoes but in the same football game company B has the same product, B is not the sponsor of the game but  trying to advertise their product indirectly by making a banner or by shouting out the company name in a group or by getting camera attention. This type of advertising is called ambush advertising. Generally, ambush means “An attack from a hidden position”. 




What’s the difference between the push and pull strategies in marketing?
In push marketing, the idea is to promote products by pushing them onto people. For push marketing, consider sales displays at your grocery store or a shelf of discounted products. On the other hand, in pull marketing, the idea is to establish a loyal following and draw consumers to the products.
Push Strategy Examples
1. Display Ads
2. Billboards
3. Direct Marketing
Pull Strategy Examples
1. Social Media Marketing
2. SEO
3. Blogs




What are some of the marketing campaigns you are aware of? 
A marketing campaign is a set of strategies used by businesses to achieve specific goals, such as building brand awareness, providing information to customers, or launching a new product.
Here are few types of marketing campaigns:
Brand awareness campaign   (MamaEarth) 
Rebranding campaign		(Glow & Lovely)
Search engine marketing campaign (Apple- ShotOnIPhone)
Social media marketing campaign
User-Generated Content (UGC) marketing campaign (Apple- ShotOnIPhone)
Email marketing campaign  (Flipkart during sales)
Public relations campaign
Product launch campaign
Referral marketing campaign
SEO Campaign
Partner marketing campaign
Conversational marketing campaign
Influencer marketing campaign
Video marketing campaign




What do you understand by social media marketing?
The term social media marketing (SMM) refers to the use of social media and social networks to market a company’s products and services. Social media marketing provides companies with a way to engage with existing customers and reach new ones while allowing them to promote their desired culture, mission, or tone. Social media marketing has purpose-built data analytics tools that allow marketers to track the success of their efforts. 
According to Buffer, there are five key pillars of social media marketing:
Strategy: This step involves determining goals, the social media channels to be used, and the type of content that will be shared.
Planning and Publishing: Businesses should draft plans of what their content will look like (i.e. will there be videos? Photos? How much script?) and decide when it will be put out on the platform.
Listening and Engagement: Monitoring what users, customers, and others are saying about the posts, brands, and any other business assets. This may require the adoption of a social media engagement tool.
Analytics and Reporting: Part of being on social media is knowing how far posts are going, so reports of engagement and reach are very important
Advertising: Purchasing ads on social media is a great way to promote and further develop a brand.


In Marketing, what does Positioning mean?



B2C Marketing																			B2B Marketing
Large scale market and bigger target audience											Niche markets and smaller target audience
Generally, the target audience is driven by emotions									Most of the times the target audience is rationally-driven
Generally, the goal is to strengthen transactional relationships with the customers 	Generally, the goal is to strengthen long-term business relationships
The goal is to reach the end-users														The goal is to convince all the decision-makers and dedicated business group




Name 5 essential elements of a marketing campaign. 
Target, Value proposition, Call-to-action message, Delivery method, and Follow-up.




How did you measure the impact of a successful campaign for a product that you marketed?
ROI
Sales Revenue
Click throug rate if it is website or something like that (reading your content, or are they taking action (e.g. requesting information, submitting a contact form)?)
Cost-per-acquisition - how much does it cost to convert a prospect into a customer
Average revenue-per-customer - how much money is each customer bringing in
Customer review scores
Also we can do short survey by asking customers about the campaign whether they saw that or they remembered it.




What is the AIDA Model in Marketing?
It is Purchasing funnel which a customer goes through during purchase decision.
Attention, Interest, Desire, and Action
Attention: The first step in marketing or advertising is to consider how to attract the attention of consumers.

Interest: Once the consumer is aware that the product or service exists, the business must work on increasing the potential customer’s interest level.
For example, Disney boosts interest in upcoming tours by announcing stars who will be performing on the tours.

Desire: After the consumer is interested in the product or service, then the goal is to make consumers desire it, moving their mindset from “I like it” to “I want it.”
For example, if the Disney stars for the upcoming tour communicate to the target audience about how great the show is going to be, the audience is more likely to want to go.

Action: The ultimate goal is to drive the receiver of the marketing campaign to initiate action and purchase the product or service.

Therefore, the AIDA model says that Awareness leads to Interest, which leads to Desire, and finally, Action.




Which marketing strategies work well for expanding a start-up?
Referrals
Press releases and news features
Content marketing
SEO
Social media marketing
Email marketing
PPC ads
Personal branding




How will you evaluate a new business promotion idea?
Write your business plan.
Assess market demand (Get to know your customers–who are they, what do they want?).
Research your direct and indirect competitors.
Build Prototype.
Test Prototype and Ask for feedback on your idea.(Prototype)




Major trends in digital marketing.
Chatbots
Voice Search Optimization
Augmented Reality
Personalization
Influencer Marketing
Moment Marketing
Location Based Marketing (Geofencing )
Progressive Web Apps
Interactive Content 
YouTube Shorts




What are the ways to enter into the market?
Start from the scratch
Acquire an existing player
Joint Venture




Can you take up social media marketing for B2B businesses? 
Yes, but the approach will be different for B2B marketing. In B2C, businesses may take this liberty to share humorous as well as informative posts, but for B2B, only valuable industry content can be shared.




Gig economy
The gig economy can be described as a system where on one hand, there is a service seeker, i.e. a customer with a demand for a specific task, and a service provider, i.e. a gig worker, on the other hand, who can perform that particular task. Tech-enabled platforms in this economy connect customers to the gig workers to hire services on a short-term basis. Self-employed, freelancers, individual contributors, and part-time staff comprise gig workers.




What is the VRIO framework?
The VRIO framework is a tool to help you understand the elements of your business that give you a long-term competitive advantage. It might be resources or capabilities, partnerships or products, whatever gives or is going to give you an advantage can be framed within the VRIO framework.
VRIO stands for:
    Valuable
    Rarity
    Imitability
    Organized
Valuable
When a resource is valuable, it's providing the organization with some sort of benefit. However, a resource that is valuable and doesn't fit into any of the other dimensions of the framework, is not a competitive advantage. An organization can only achieve competitive parity with a resource that is valuable and neither rare nor hard to imitate.

Rare
A resource that is uncommon and not possessed by most organizations is rare. When a resource is both valuable and rare, you have a resource that gives you a competitive advantage. The competitive advantage achieved from a resource that is both valuable and rare is usually short lived though. Competitors will quickly realize and can imitate the resource without too much trouble. Therefore it's only a temporary competitive advantage.

Hard to Imitate
Resources are hard to imitate if they are extremely expensive for another organization to acquire them. A resource may also be hard for an organization to imitate if it's protected by legal means, such as patents or trademarks. Resources are considered a competitive advantage if they're valuable, rare, and hard to imitate. However, organizations that aren't organized to fully take advantage of the resource, may mean the resource is an unused competitive advantage.

Organized to Capture Value
An organization's resource is organized to capture value only if it is supported by the processes, structure, and culture of the company. A resource that is valuable, rare, hard to imitate, and organized to capture value is a long-term competitive advantage. A resource can not confer any advantage for a company if it’s not organized to capture the value. Only a firm that is capable to exploit valuable, rare, and imitable resources can achieve sustained competitive advantage.

Example- COVID Vaccines
Valuable- It is bringing lots of profits to the organization, They have produced almost 50-60 crore vaccine doses till now and it is still producing at a very good rate.
Rare- The formula for this vaccine is unique. In India only 2 companies are producing the vaccines.
Imitability- It is very hard for competitors to copy or produce any substitute product.
Organization- Whether the organization has the capabilities to take the advantages of the above qualities. Serum Institute is very profitable nowadays.




Market Penetration
Market penetration can be used to determine the size of the potential market. If the total market is large, new entrants to the industry might be encouraged that they can gain market share or a percentage of the total number of potential customers in the industry.

For example, if there are 300 million people in a country and 65 million of them own cell phones, the market penetration of cell phones would be approximately 22% (65/300).
Another example could be if a company has target of 1 billion and it launches a product priced at Rs. 400 and there customer size is 30 million. Therefore with 12% (400*30 million/ 1 billion) penetration rate, the company can achieve its target.




SPANCO
SPANCO is an abbreviation of 6 stages of a typical sales cycle which usually occurs during every sales process. This framework was given to the sales community by Xerox. Even though the stages of Sales Cycle in each industry would differ but the basic framework for most of the sales process would typically fit within SPANCO, with minor differences in the case of businesses dealing with specialised products & related consulting.

SPANCO stands for:
S - Suspect
P - Prospect
A - Approach
N - Negotiate
C - Close
O - Order

Stage 1: SUSPECT
In this stage, a list of leads are idenfied who are suspected to be potential customers. But at this stage of Sales Cycle, it is not confirmed whether they are interested to buy the product offered by the Salesperson or not. It is just a list of leads which has been gathered from multiple sources like Directories, Mail Opt-in lists, Networking platforms, Referrals, etc

Stage 2: PROSPECT
During this stage, a few prospects are identified out of the huge list of Suspects. These prospects are the potential customers who express their interest during the previous Suspecting stage. For. E.g. Consider that you are selling Softwares to a B2B firm. You have been cold calling every lead you had during Suspecting Stage. Let us suppose, out of 100 calls made, 20 leads were found to be interested and would like to meet further. Then those 20 leads are said to be your Prospects.

Stage 3: APPROACH
During this stage, you go on to meet the clients identified during the Prospecting stage. This meeting can happen either Virtually using phone & video calls or Physically by meeting in person. In this stage, the sales person tries to identify the client's requirements, analyze them, perform lead qualification and based on that, tries to present a solution from their  offerings. This happens over several days with multiple meetings each for Need Identification, Sales Presentations, etc.

Stage 4: NEGOTIATE
This is one of the most crucial stage of the sales cycle since this can either make or break sales deal. This stage would decide whether the client would buy from you or not. This stage involves negotiation with the clients on the pricing aspect of the deal and its associated terms & conditions. During this stage, you should demonstrate the value of your product to be more than what the customer is going to pay. This is usually done using many techniques like "Balance Sheet Comparison method" for comparing the pricing with respect to your competitor; "TCO" method, wherein you tend to explain the Total Cost of Ownership of your product over a given time period to the client and explain how it would benefit more than the cost he would pay at present.

Stage 5: CLOSE
At this point of sales cycle, the Client would agree to the terms & conditions of the deal or contract. The Deal would be considered to be "Close", when the customer would sign on the contract and would complete all the necessary formalities for issuing a purchase order to you.

Stage 6: ORDER
This is the last stage of the sales cycle, wherein the Client would issue the purchase order and Order fulfilment is done. Once a Purchase Order (PO) is issued, the salesperson has to hand over the PO to the concerned Operations Department or Fulfilment or Delivery Team which would carry it forward. The client's responsibility is transferred to the Delivery Team. This marks the end of the sales cycle for that particular deal.

Moreover, this does not ends here. Successful Sales teams go beyond these stages and maintain a better customer relationship even after the "Order" stage of the sales process. Maintaining a long term relationship with the client equips the sales team with Upsell and Cross-sell opportunity, thus increasing the Customer Life Time Value (CLTV) of that particular client. This is extremely important considering the fact that:
Acquiring a New Client is 10x times more expensive than Retaining them




Cross- Selling
To cross-sell is to sell related or complementary products to a customer. Cross-selling is one of the most effective methods of marketing. 
Cross-selling identifies products that satisfy additional, complementary needs that are unfulfilled by the original item. For example, a comb could be cross-sold to a customer purchasing a blow dryer. Oftentimes, cross-selling points users to products they would have purchased anyways; by showing them at the right time, a store ensures they make the sale.

Cross-selling is prevalent in every type of commerce, including banks and insurance agencies. Credit cards are cross-sold to people registering a savings account.
Example- Suppose if you bought a laptop then the company will try to sell complementary products like Speakers, Mouse, Keyboard.




Up-selling
Upselling is a sales technique used to get a customer to spend more by buying an upgraded or premium version of what’s being purchased.
Upselling is a sales technique where a seller invites the customer to purchase more expensive items, upgrades, or other add-ons to generate more revenue. While it usually involves marketing more profitable services or products.
Upselling often employs comparison charts to market higher-end products to customers. Showing visitors that other versions or models may better fulfill their needs can increase AOV and help users walk away more satisfied with their purchase. Companies that excel at upselling are effective at helping customers visualize the value they will get by ordering a higher-priced item.

Example- When you buy a laptop you generally get warranty of 1 years so while checkout it shows an ad of expanding your warranty upto 36 months by buying the insurance. Or You have been shown an more enhanced version of your laptop so you may buy that.




7S
McKinsey 7S Framework
You can use the 7-S model in a wide variety of situations where it's useful to examine how the various parts of your organization work together.
For example, it can help you to improve the performance of your organization, or to determine the best way to implement a proposed strategy.
The framework can be used to examine the likely effects of future changes in the organization, or to align departments and processes during a merger or acquisition. You can also apply the McKinsey 7-S model to elements of a team or a project.

At the Middle (Shared Values) then the benzene structure with other 6 S
Structure
Staff
Skills
Strategy
Systems
Style

Hard Elements- Strategy, Structure, Systems
Soft Elements- Shared Values, Skills, Staff, Style

Strategy: this tells what is the plan of your organization's for building and maintaining a competitive advantage over its competitors.
Structure: this tells how your company is organized (how departments and teams are structured, including who reports to whom).
Systems: the daily activities and procedures that staff use to get the job done.
Shared Values: these are the core values of the organization and reflect its general work ethic. They were called "superordinate goals" when the model was first developed.
Style: the style of leadership adopted.
Staff: the employees and their general capabilities.
Skills: the actual skills and competencies of the organization's employees.




What is Agile Project Management 
Agile Project Management as the name suggests is a flexible approach to building a project. In Agile project management the project is broken down into several stages or sprints. Agile does not work on the principle of delivering the final product at the end of the project it works on delivering sections of a project or mini projects the process of project management in the case of Agile is Agile based so there won't be any central control of project manager as it was there in the traditional way of working.

Example- Suppose our client wants us to develop a similar App like WhatsApp. If we follow traditional project management then our goal would be to develop the full application at once and then deliver it. But in case of Agile, we will break down the process into several steps or sprints. At the end of each stage we will deliver some result. Like 1st we will give the interface of the application. Then in the next step we will add features like Texting, sending Images. Then in the next step Videos, Audio, Calling, Video Calling etc. So in this way we will develop few features and deliver it to the client. So if Client want any change we can incorporate those change in the next sprint. 
As we know that it takes around 6 to 12 months to complete a project and in that time requirement may change, so in traditional method it is not possible to incorporate the changes, but it is possible in Agile. 


Agile Development Cycle
Agile methodologies consist of several small cycles or Sprint's. At the end of each stage we get a mini project. There's a product backlog that explains new features, changes in the existing features and several other improvements in the project. Then we have a sprint backlog which has a list of tasks that are to be completed during each sprint. The sprint consists of planning, designing, execution, testing and deployment. Stages and at the end of each sprint, a mini project is delivered. With every sprint new features are added to the product which plays a significant role in the overall project growth. After all the sprints and early validation in the development a final deliverable has a fewer chances of failure. 

Principles for successful Agile Project Management 
satisfaction of the customer by delivering the project fast and with least number of errors 
decreasing the amount of time between the phase of planning and delivery 
the team of managers and developers work together and increase the productivity of their work 
the changes requested by the stakeholders can be taken into consideration and worked upon during the development phase as well 
the factor of coordination among the team members 
the process of monitoring and tracking the progress of the project at the end of each sprint and making amendments wherever needed 
there must be a feeling of trust and support towards a team to complete the project's objectives 
emphasizes on face-to-face conversations with the development team and the face-to-face conversation helps in both solving problems and easy knowledge sharing 

if we shall now see the steps in Agile project management the goal of Agile methodology is to produce shorter development life cycles and more frequent product releases then traditional waterfall project management so we will now check six steps in Agile project methodology the first step in the process is project planning project planning includes feasibility study development of scope breaking the project into executable tasks or sprints and then estimating the amount of time needed to complete those sprints the second step is the step of roadmap creation our roadmap is a plan of action that shows how a projection evolve over time a list of all the features that the final product should have is created and the steps to achieve those features are taken the next important step is release planning since we are doing the project keeping in mind the Agile project methodology the project will complete in Sprint's that means there will be the release of features at the end of each cycle and unlike the traditional waterfall model the development cycles will be smaller the fourth step in Agile project management is sprint planning the sprints are made keeping in mind what all is to be accomplished in that particular step at the beginning of each sprint the goal of that sprint is decided and steps to achieve that goal are taken the next step in the process emphasizes on daily meetings there are short meetings every day to discuss if the team was able to finish the task for each sprint and check if there are any amendments that are required each team member talks about what they achieved in the last sprint and what are they going to work on in the next sprint the last step is the step of Sprint review and retrospective there are two meetings after each sprint first meeting is for the Sprint review this meeting is with the stakeholders to show them the finished product this helps both sides to build a relationship and discuss if there are any issues in the end product. the second meeting is for having a Sprint retrospective this meeting involves the stakeholders to discuss what went well and what went wrong during the sprint sprint retrospective takes place after the Sprint review and before the next sprint planning 

Two Different Agile Methodologies: Scrum and Kanban
						Scrum																	Kanban
Cadence					Regular fixed length sprints (ie, 2 weeks)								Continuous flow 
Release methodology		At the end of each sprint 												Continuous delivery
Roles					Product owner, scrum master, development team 							No required roles 
Key metrics				Velocity																Lead time, cycle time, WIP  
Change philosophy 		Teams should not make changes during the sprint. 						Change can happen at any time 


Scrum Master VS Product Owner
The Scrum Master ensures project success, by assisting the product owner and the team in using the right Scrum processes for creating the end product and establishing the Agile principles. The Product Owner interacts with the users and customers, Stakeholders, the Development team and the Scrum Master to deliver a successful product.  

The Product Owner should have an overall vision of the client’s requirements. Due to this reason, the Scrum Master needs the Product Owner; whereas the project team requires the Scrum Master to help them deliver by creating an atmosphere conducive to development and innovation.

Scrum Master 
Scrum Master is to help the development team perform. This includes removing obstacles that may impede the team from performing.
A Scrum Master is well versed with Scrum processes and tools. It’s the Scrum Master’s primary responsibility to ensure that the team adheres to Scrum processes during the development of the product.
The daily stand-up meetings are an essential part of Scrum. The Scrum Master facilitates these meetings and ensures that all issues are addressed and the team is able to perform towards reaching its sprint goal.
The Scrum Master has a greater responsibility than that of leading the team, and that is the promotion of Scrum and transformation of the entire organization. This they do by coaching and helping teams and departments understand Scrum and develop an Agile mind-set.


Product Owner
The Product Owner’s main task is to define the vision of the product to the development team. Giving the development team a correct vision of the product will help them work better.
In the development team’s case, the product owner has to ensure that they have understood without any ambiguity, what needs to be built and with respect to the stakeholders, product owner has to ensure that they get the product that they have asked for.  
The Product Owner maximises product value by identifying what items in the product backlog need to be tackled first.
Creating and updating the backlog is a major part of the product owner’s responsibility. They have to sequence, prioritise and ensure that the development time is not wasting time or resources in doing the wrong tasks.




Difference between R and Python: Data analysis goals
The main distinction between the two languages is in their approach to data science. Both open source programming languages are supported by large communities, continuously extending their libraries and tools. 
R is mainly used for statistical analysis, Python provides a more general approach to data wrangling.
Data scientists use R for deep statistical analysis basically (data visualizations), supported by just a few lines of code and beautiful data visualizations. For example, you might use R for customer behavior analysis or genomics research.
Programmers use Python to delve into data analysis or use machine learning in scalable production environments. For example, you might use Python to build face recognition into your mobile API or for developing a machine learning application.
Data visualizations is easy in R with ggplot2 for more advanced plots, such as complex scatter plots with regression lines. Whereas in Python, you can use the Matplotlib library for generating basic graphs and charts.

Python is better for...	                           							R is better for...
Handling massive amounts of data                   							Creating graphics and data visualizations
Building deep learning models	                   							Building statistical models
Performing non-statistical tasks, like web scraping,        				Its robust ecosystem of statistical packages
saving to databases, and running workflows	



	
Difference between Pandas and Numpy
Pandas provides high-performance data manipulation in Python. It is built on top of the NumPy package, which means Numpy is required for operating the Pandas. Before Pandas, Python was capable for data preparation, but it only provided limited support for data analysis. So, Pandas came into the picture and enhanced the capabilities of data analysis. It can perform five significant steps required for processing and analysis of data irrespective of the origin of the data, i.e., load, manipulate, prepare, model, and analyze.

PANDAS																					NUMPY
1	When we have to work on Tabular data, we prefer the pandas module.					When we have to work on Numerical data, we prefer the numpy module.
2	The powerful tools of pandas are Data frame and Series.								Whereas the powerful tool of numpy is Arrays.
3	Pandas consume more memory.															Numpy is memory efficient.
4	Pandas has a better performance when number of rows is 500K or more.				Numpy has a better performance when number of rows is 50K or less.
5	Indexing of the pandas series is very slow as compared to numpy arrays.				Indexing of numpy Arrays is very fast.
6	Pandas offers 2d table object called DataFrame.										Numpy is capable of providing multi-dimensional arrays.




DevOps
DevOps is a set of practices that combines software development and IT operations. It aims to shorten the systems development life cycle and provide continuous delivery with high software quality. DevOps is complementary with Agile software development; several DevOps aspects came from the Agile methodology. 

https://www.atlassian.com/devops

Intensive Placement Strategy
Extensive Placement Strategy

Showrooming
Webrooming



https://www.naukri.com/learning/articles/top-20-marketing-interview-questions-answers/

https://dare2compete.com/blog/best-marketing-interview-questions





What are the limitations of online marketing?

Ans. There are certain limitations of online marketing. Some of the common ones are below. 

    Online marketing requires money
    Chances of cyberattacks prevail
    Requires time to generate results
    Takes time to build trust as compared to conventional marketing




Why do you need to create a customer journey map?

Ans. This is an important marketing interview question that is based on your experience as a professional. In marketing, the customer journey map highlights how the user buys the product. For marketers, creating a customer journey involves understanding the buyer persona, his/her needs from a product/service, potential pain points while buying a product, etc. After creating this map, marketers can resolve any issues and make customers trust the product/service.




How is service marketing different from product marketing?

Ans. Marketing a product and marketing a service both needs a different approach. While selling a product, we use the 4Ps of marketing, i.e. Product, Price, Place, and Promotion. But, when a service is to be offered, apart from the 4P’s, 3 more Ps are to be taken care of, i.e. People, Process, and Physical evidence. Thus, both require different forms of strategies to promote the overall sale.




What is real-time marketing? Does this form of marketing help?

Ans. Real-time marketing is a strategy to take advantage of live events, news, topics, or situations to market/promote the product. Most of the brands use social media channels, popularly Twitter to share a post related to the real-time situation. Yes, if done in the right way and at the right time, these tactics help in brand recall.

Example- Oreo- During Superbowl 2013. There was a massive power-cut in the city. So Orea marketed their product in twitter by saying "Power Cut No Problem. Have oreo. You can still dunk in the dark". This was a massive hit.




What is social listening and why is it important?

Ans. With this question, your interviewer wants to know what you actually understand about audience research/insight. 

Social listening is a vital component of any marketing strategy. With it, a brand can analyze and respond to what others are actively communicating or discussing about its products/services on various social media platforms. 

Example- Through social listening, Netflix found out that many of the people binge-watching the shows were falling asleep. Not many brands would consider that a serious problem, but Netflix obviously saw an opportunity to show that they listen, they care, and they are as creative as a brand can be. So they invented Netflix Socks – smart socks that detect when the user is dozing off, send a signal to the user’s TV and pause the show. This way, no one wakes up to the screen of spoilers and confusion. The product was cheered, went viral, got tons of coverage, and even won a Shorty Award for creative use of technology. Now isn’t that something to learn from?




Are display ads useful? Can you name some types? 

Ans. Google has its own Google Display Network that reaches 90% of internet users worldwide. Companies can use display ads for a targeted audience only which won’t be shown to users who are not interested in a product. 

Display ads are not limited to demographics but also extend to interest targeting. 

There are three types of display ads:

    HTML ads
    Text ads
    Image ads




Above the line (ATL): 
Above the Line (ATL) refers to promotional activities done at macro level. It is done at national, regional or at bigger territory level and mass audience is covered in this type of promotion. A brand image is created about the company and its product. Media such as television, cinema, radio, newspapers, and magazines are used to create an impact about the company and its product. ATL communication is more of conventional in nature.

Below the line (BTL): Below the Line (BTL) communication is unconventional in nature, done at micro level and forms part of non- media communication. Measures include direct mailing, distribution of flyers, brochures, and usage of sponsorships, public relations, tele-marketing and point of sale.

Through The Line (TTL): 
"Through the line" refers to an advertising strategy involving both above and below the line communications. This strategic approach allows brands to engage with a customer at multiple points (for example, the customer will see the television commercial, hear the radio advert and be handed a flyer on the street corner). This enables an integrated communications approach where consistent messaging across multiple media create a customer perception.




Product Mix
Product line length
If a company has 4 product lines, and 10 products within the product line, then the length of the product mix is 40. Thus, the total number of products in the total number of product lines forms the length of the product mix. This equation is also known as product line length.

Product line width
The width of the product mix is equal to the number of product lines within a company. Taking the above example, if there are 4 product lines within the company, and 10 products within each product line, then the product line width is 4 only. Thus, product line width is a depiction of the number of product lines which a company has.

Product line depth
Depth of a product mix pertains to the total number of variations for each product. Variations can include size, flavor and any other distinguishing characteristic. For example, if your company sells three sizes and two flavors of toothpaste, that particular line of toothpaste has a depth of six.



Levels of Product
1. Core Product- Only Food
2. Expected Product- good Building, Bed, Water, TV
3. Actual Product- 
4. Augmented Product
5. Potential Product




House of Brands VS Branded House
House of Brands- HUL- Axe, Tide, Lux, Pepsodent Red Label
Branded House- Colgate salt, Colgate Max Fresh, Colgate Strong Tooth etc.




Customer Lifetime Value
Customer Lifetime Value (CLV) describes the amount of profit the business will generate from a customer over the customer’s entire lifetime. It can also be defined as the present value of the future cash flows attributed to the customer during his/her entire relationship with the company. The purpose of the customer lifetime value metric is to assess the financial value of each customer. Customer lifetime value encourages firms to shift their focus from quarterly profits to the long-term health of their customer relationships. It helps in determining the limit on spending to acquire new customers. For this reason, it is an important element in calculating payback of advertising spend in marketing mix modelling.




A/B Testing
A/B testing, also known as split testing, refers to a randomized experimentation process wherein two or more versions of a variable (web page, page element, etc.) are shown to different segments of website visitors at the same time to determine which version leaves the maximum impact and drive business metrics.
Example- Obama Campaign




Component of Analytics
Descriptive- What happened? Analysis of past data
Predictive- What will happen in the future? Regression, Discrimination
Prescriptive- Choosing optimal model based on Descriptive and Predictive analysis.



Types of Scale
Nominal- 
Ordinal-
Interval- 
Ratio- 0 is defined. When we say someone has 0 amount it means they are broke, he does not have any money. But when we say it is 0 degree celcius then we does not not mean temperature is absent. 
Another example could be when someone got zero rating out of 5 it does not mean that he did not get rating it means that he performed very poorly.




If multi collinearity problem arise than either you can remove the variable or you can do PCA(Factor Analysis) to combine the variables.


How to form hypotheses?
Secondary Research
Qualitative Research- FGD, In- Depth interviews
Managers or Experts Research



Data Driven Decision Making Process
Problem or Opportunity Identification- Research Objectives, Questions, Hypotheses
Collection of Data
Data Pre- Processing and Exploratory Analysis
Model Building and Interpretation
Communication and Deployment of data analysis




How to deal with missing values?
Remove 
Mean, Mode, Median (Sometimes take immediate neighbours- Example- IMT placements from 2000- 2021)
Contact the person to fill the data again



How to deal with Outliers?
If less than we can remove it.
If more then we can form diffrent clusters and then analyze





AI- It enables the machine to think or mimic like humans.
Example- Self- Driving Car

ML- It is a subset of AI. It uses statistical model to learn without being explicitly programmed. Supervised and Un- Supervised learning.

DL- It is a subset of ML. It uses neural network. The main focus is to mimic human brain. Example- If we say Square, we thinklike that it has 4 sides all the sides are equal and angle between two sides is 90 and it is a closed structure. So, similarly DL uses this kind if neural networks to come to a solution.


1. Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Humans have been obsessed with automation since the beginning of technology adoption. AI enables machines to think without any human intervention. It is a broad area of computer science. AI systems fall into three types: ANI: Artificial Narrow Intelligence, which is goal-oriented and programmed to perform a single task. AGI (Artificial General Intelligence) which allows machines to learn, understand, and act in a way that is indistinguishable from humans in a given situation. ASI (Artificial Super Intelligence) is a hypothetical AI where machines are capable of exhibiting intelligence that surpasses brightest humans.

2. Machine Learning (ML)
ML is a subset of AI that uses statistical learning algorithms to build smart systems. The ML systems can automatically learn and improve without explicitly being programmed. The recommendation systems on music and video streaming services are examples of ML. The machine learning algorithms are classified into three categories: supervised, unsupervised and reinforcement learning.

3. Deep Learning (DL)
This subset of AI is a technique that is inspired by the way a human brain filters information. It is associated with learning from examples. DL systems help a computer model to filter the input data through layers to predict and classify information. Deep Learning processes information in the same manner as the human brain. It is used in technologies such as driver-less cars. DL network architectures are classified into Convolutional Neural Networks, Recurrent Neural Networks, and Recursive Neural Networks. 

Data Science
Data science is an interdisciplinary field that uses scientific methods, processes, algorithms and systems to extract knowledge and insights from noisy, structured and unstructured data, and apply knowledge and actionable insights from data across a broad range of application domains.

DS VS AI
Data Science is a comprehensive process that involves pre-processing, analysis, visualization and prediction. On the other hand, AI is the implementation of a predictive model to forecast future events. Data Science comprises of various statistical techniques whereas AI makes use of computer algorithms.





https://www.lucidchart.com/blog/digitize-business-processes
https://maxen.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2015/01/maxen-article-jan-2015-portable.html