Retailing
Retailing is the set of business activities that adds value to products and services sold to consumers for their personal or family use. Often, people think of retailing only as the sale of products in stores, but retailing also involves the sale of services such as overnight lodging in a motel, a doctor’s exam, a haircut, or a home-delivered pizza. Not all retailing is done in stores. Examples of nonstore retailing include ordering a T-shirt on your mobile phone app, buying cosmetics from an Avon salesperson, ordering hiking boots from an L.L.Bean catalog, and streaming a movie through Amazon Prime.

Important Retailing functions:
-Breaking bulk		-Holding stock
-Providing assortment	-Create new demand for merchandise

Retailers Create Value
Why are retailers needed? Wouldn’t it be easier and cheaper to buy directly from manufacturers? The answer, generally, is no because retailers are more efficient at performing the activities described below that increase the value of products and services for consumers. These value-creating activities include (1) providing an assortment of products and services, (2) breaking bulk, (3) holding inventory, and (4) providing services.
Retailers add value by providing an assortment of products that consumers can buy at one place.

Providing Assortments 
Conventional supermarkets typically carry about 30,000 different items made by more than 500 companies. Offering an assortment enables customers to choose from a wide selection of products, brands, sizes, and prices at one location. Manufacturers specialize in producing specific types of products. For example, Frito-Lay makes snacks, Yoplait makes yogurt, Skippy makes peanut butter, and Heinz makes ketchup. If each of these manufacturers had its own stores that sold only its own products, consumers would have to go to many different stores to buy the groceries needed to prepare a single meal.

Breaking Bulk 
To reduce transportation costs, manufacturers and wholesalers typically ship cases of frozen dinners or cartons of blouses to retailers. Retailers then offer the products in smaller quantities tailored to individual consumers’ and households’ consumption patterns—an activity called breaking bulk. Breaking bulk is important to both manufacturers and consumers. It allows manufacturers to produce and ship merchandise efficiently and in larger quantities at one time, but it enables consumers to purchase the specific merchandise they want in smaller, more useful quantities.

Holding Inventory 
A major value-providing activity performed by retailers is holding inventory so that products will be available when consumers want them. Thus, consumers can keep a smaller inventory of products at home because they know local retailers will have the products available when they need more. This activity is particularly important to consumers with limited storage space, such as families living in small apartments.

Providing Services 
Retailers provide services that make it easier for customers to buy and use products. For example, retailers offer credit so that consumers can have a product now and pay for it later. They display products so that consumers can see and test them before buying. Some retailers employ salespeople in stores or maintain websites to answer questions and provide additional information about the products they sell.

Division of Retail Industry – Organised and Unorganised Retailing
The retail industry is mainly divided into:- 1) Organised and 2) Unorganised Retailing
Organised retailing refers to trading activities undertaken by licensed retailers, that is, those who are registered for sales tax, income tax, etc. These include the corporate-backed hypermarkets and retail chains, and also the privately owned large retail businesses.

Unorganised retailing, on the other hand, refers to the traditional formats of low-cost retailing, for example, the local kirana shops, owner manned general stores, paan/beedi shops, convenience stores, hand cart and pavement vendors, etc.

The Indian retail sector is highly fragmented with 97 per cent of its business being run by the unorganized retailers. The organized retail however is at a very nascent stage. The sector is the largest source of employment after agriculture, and has deep penetration into rural India generating more than 10 per cent of India’s GDP.


Anchor Tenant
In retail, an "anchor tenant", sometimes called an "anchor store", "draw tenant", or "key tenant", is a considerably larger tenant in a shopping mall, often a department store or retail chain. With their broad appeal, they are intended to attract a significant cross-section of the shopping public to the center. They are often offered steep discounts on rent in exchange for signing long-term leases in order to provide steady cash flows for the mall owners.
OR
When a familiar or impressive name is associated with something, people become more interested in it. An anchor tenant—sometimes also called a prime tenant, a draw tenant, or a key tenant—is the leading, featured, big-name business that rents office space in any given development, complex, or neighborhood. A retail property such as a shopping center, a shopping mall, or a tourism hub often has a department store—usually a global retail chain—as its anchor tenant. Shopping centers and malls typically display the anchor tenant’s name front and center on the marquee, with all the other businesses and stores in the shopping center listed below it.
Either a department store or a major retail chain with enough prestige and popularity to attract other retail tenants and consumers.

Assortment
An assortment strategy in retailing involves the number and type of products that stores display for purchase by consumers. Also called a "product assortment strategy," it is a strategic tool that retailers use to manage and increase sales. The strategy is comprised of two major components:
The depth of products offered, or how many variations of a particular product a store carries
The width of the product variety, or how many different types of products a store carries

Atmospherics
The controllable characteristics of retail space which entice customers to enter the store, shop, and purchase are atmospherics. Philip Kotler first identified the use of design atmospherics as a marketing device in 1973. Aspects such as lighting, ambient sound, merchandise layout, and other features are all components of atmospherics. These features are in place to influence a consumer's mood and increase the odds of purchases. 
Atmospherics is the physical manipulation of the store environment (physical or online) to change the mood of the customer. Creating a positive store environment causes people to stay in the store longer and the longer a customer spends in a store the more money they are likely to spend.

Big box stores
A big-box retailer is a retail store that occupies an enormous amount of physical space and offers a variety of products to its customers. These stores achieve economies of scale by focusing on large sales volumes. Because volume is high, the profit margin for each product can be lowered, which results in very competitively priced goods. The term "big-box" is derived from the store's physical appearance.
Designed to be a one-stop shop for customers, big-box stores can offer great convenience and value.
Located in large-scale buildings of more than 50,000 square feet, the store is usually plainly designed and often resembles a large box. Walmart, Home Depot, and Ikea are examples of big-box retailers. Warehouse clubs such as Costco and BJs are the original kind of big-box retailers. 

Balanced tenancy
Balanced tenancy refers to a designated retail area, like a shopping center or plaza, which is carefully planned to have a complementary and balanced mix of stores.
An attribute of a shopping centre or shopping mall which comprises a mix of retail stores carefully selected to complement each other.

Bait & switch pricing
Bait and switch is a morally suspect sales tactic that lures customers in with specific claims about the quality or low prices on items that turn out to be unavailable in order to upsell them on a similar, pricier item. It is considered a form of retail sales fraud, though it takes place in other contexts. While many countries have laws against using bait and switch tactics, not all occurrences constitute fraud.

Cash and carry 
A cash-and-carry is a self-service wholesale store, especially for groceries, at which customers pay at each visit and take the goods they have bought away with them. 
A cash and carry store is different from regular retail chains which target professional customers rather than end-consumers. This concept is based around self-service and bulk buying and serves registered customers only. The core customer groups are hotels, caterers, traders and other business professionals. Such stores aim to prevent any intervention by middlemen and requires buyers to make their own arrangements and assume all risk.

Category killer
A category killer is a large retail chain superstore that is so competitive that it dominates its product category and puts less productive and highly specialized merchants out of business. Category killers mainly attain their massive competitive advantage, by having a bigger and deeper selection of merchandise as compared to small and independent stores. Those merchandise numbers enable category killers to become cost-efficient and sell their products at prices so low that other stores are unable to compete with them. An example of a category killer superstore is Home Depot, which has almost seven times the square footage and inventory of a local hardware store and offers more choice in product variety. 

Central Business District 
A Central Business District (CBD) is the main center of commerce and trade in the city. It is characterized by peak land rates and intense developments. The shopping area within this district is usually different from the main office area. It has good accessibility in terms of transport from all the parts of the city. An example of a Central Business District in Mumbai would be Colaba or Nariman Point. In New Delhi, the same would apply to Connaught Place, which for long has been the center of business and commerce. 

Category management
In general, category management is the process of bundling like products into a singular category, or business unit, and then addressing procurement, merchandising, sales, and other retail efforts on the category as a whole.
A central idea behind this strategy is to emphasize the benefits of the category for the consumer and remove inefficiencies and unprofitable competition among brands and suppliers within a category. For instance, this approach can help retailers lift profits on similar products in multiple ways, including by organizing procurement efforts under a single category instead of by individual brand or supplier.

Cherry picking
The action or practice of choosing and taking only the most beneficial or profitable items, opportunities, etc., from what is available. To choose something very carefully to ensure that the best option is chosen, perhaps through means that provide one an unfair advantage or from a selection that others do not have ready access to.

Cross Merchandising
Cross merchandising is a visual merchandising strategy that involves displaying complementary products next to each other. It’s also known as secondary product placement. 
Cross merchandising makes the shopping experience more convenient for your customers and may inspire ideas or remind them of additional items they need. When done effectively, cross merchandising can result in increased sales and average order value (AOV).

Cashwrap
Simply put, cash wraps are the locations in your store where customers pay for merchandise. But it’s more than just a cash register. It also applies to the surrounding area, including any retail displays or nearby aisles.
To expand a bit, it’s the one place that all of your customers need to pass through to exit your store — whether they’re buying something or not. It’s essentially the last chance you have to entice them to make a purchase. Maybe they didn’t find exactly what they were looking for and start to walk out, only to have their eyes drawn to a display of goods right by the register — which they end up buying. 

DIY and DIFM stores

Dead areas
Are there areas of your store where there simply isn’t a lot of foot traffic? These could be center aisles that shoppers always seem to navigate around, displays that never attract any attention, or corners that aren’t part of the logical progression through the store. Dead zones don’t produce a lot of sales. Instead, turn these dead spots into productive areas where sales are increased. This might mean changing the layout of your store to bring shoppers to those dead zones more efficiently or transforming the area into something new to draw their attention.

Destination merchandise
A type of merchandise that motivates or triggers a trip to a specific store. A destination store is the retail store that a person thinks of first when he or she wants to buy something. The same definition applies to products. Manufacturers want their products to be those that customers think of first. To be customers' "destination" means that the store or product has customers' support, and sales depend on how many such customers a business has. 

Endless Aisle
Endless aisles are in-store kiosks which allow customers to browse and order products that are not available in the store. It is a new concept which provides the expected customer fulfillment for the retail consumers who prefers both online and offline shopping experiences.

Feature area
Feature areas are the areas of the store where customers focus and that draw attention in general. ... This path guides the customers' eyes and feet. As the customers walk through the store, freestanding displays, end caps, and wall displays highlight special products, discounts, and seasonal products.
Retailers can guide customers through stores according to the placement of feature areas • Feature Areas are areas within a store designed to get the customer’s attention • Feature Areas include: 1. Entrances 2. Freestanding displays 3. Cash wraps 4. End caps 5. Promotional aisles or areas 6. Walls 7. Windows 8. Fitting Rooms 

EDLP & High/low pricing
Everyday low price (also abbreviated as EDLP) is a pricing strategy promising consumers a low price without the need to wait for sale price events or comparison shopping. EDLP saves retail stores the effort and expense needed to mark down prices in the store during sale events, and is also believed to generate shopper loyalty.
Examples- Walmart, Procter & Gamble, Food Lion, Gordmans.
While a high-low pricing strategy implies setting a high price initially and then lowering it during promotional campaigns, EDLP allows companies to set a low price without making customers wait for deals.
Examples of High/low Pricing- This strategy is widely used in the fashion and shoe industry. The most popular companies reaping its benefits include Nike, Reebok, and Adidas.

Inventory shrinkage
Inventory shrinkage is recorded when a product’s listed quantity-on-hand exceeds the actual physical count. The difference between these two amounts is referred to as “shrink.” In a retail setting, this is sometimes called retail shrink; and in a warehouse or manufacturing business, it’s generally reported as inventory shrinkage. Either way, it means the same thing—you’re missing inventory you thought you had.
When your recorded and physical stock counts don’t match it’s called inventory shrinkage. The loss can be real like shoplifting theft or just a clerical error like a typo during receiving.

Layaway/ Lay-by
Layaway is a purchasing method in which a consumer places a deposit on an item to "lay it away" for later pick-up when they are financially positioned to pay off the balance. Layaway also lets customers make smaller payments on the product until the purchase is paid in full. A layaway plan ensures the consumer will get their chosen merchandise once it's fully paid.
A lay-by agreement lets you buy a product and pay for it in two or more instalments before taking it home. It’s important for you to understand what the written agreement covers and how you or the business can cancel it.

Level I,II,III stores


Market place model
Marketplace model of e-commerce means providing of an information technology platform by an e-commerce entity on a digital and electronic network to act as a facilitator between buyer and seller.”
Marketplaces are platforms that enable a large, fragmented base of buyers and sellers to discover price and transact with one another in an environment that is efficient, transparent and trusted.
The main feature of the market place model is that the e-commerce firm like flipkart, snapdeal, amazon etc. will be providing a platform for customers to interact with a selected number of sellers. When an individual is purchasing a product from flipkart, he will be actually buying it from a registered seller in flipkart. The product is not directly sold by flipkart. Here, flipkart is just a website platform where a consumer meets a seller. Inventory, stock management, logistics etc are not supposed to be actively done by the ecommerce firm.

What is inventory model?
According to the FDI policy, “Inventory model of ecommerce means an ecommerce activity where inventory of goods and services is owned by e-commerce entity and is sold to the consumers directly.”
The main feature of inventory model is that the customer buys the product from the ecommerce firm. He manages an inventory (stock of products), interfaces with customers, runs logistics and involves in every aspects of the business.
Alibaba of China is following the inventory model.

Market basket analysis
When you go to the supermarket, usually the first thing you do is grab a shopping cart. As you move up and down the aisles, you will pick up certain items and place them in your shopping cart. Most of these items may correspond to a shopping list that was prepared ahead of time, but other items may have been selected spontaneously. Let’s presume that when you check out at the cashier, the contents of your (and every other shopper’s) cart are logged, because the supermarket wants to see if there are any patterns in selection that occur from one shopper to another. This is called market basket analysis.
Market basket analysis is a process that looks for relationships of objects that “go together” within the business context. In reality, market basket analysis goes beyond the supermarket scenario from which its name is derived. Market basket analysis is the analysis of any collection of items to identify affinities that can be exploited in some manner. Some examples of the use of market basket analysis include:
▪ Product placement. Identifying products that may often be purchased together and arranging the placement of those items (such as in a catalog or on a web site) close by to encourage the purchaser to buy both items.
▪ Physical shelf arrangement. An alternate use for physical product placement in a store is to separate items that are often purchased at the same time to encourage individuals to wander through the store to find what they are looking for to potentially increase the probability of additional impulse purchases.
▪ Up-sell, cross-sell, and bundling opportunities. Companies may use the affinity grouping of multiple products as an indication that customers may be predisposed to buying the grouped products at the same time. This enables the presentation of items for cross-selling, or may suggest that customers may be willing to buy more items when certain products are bundled together.
▪ Customer retention. When customers contact a business to sever a relationship, a company representative may use market basket analysis to determine the right incentives to offer in order to retain the customer’s business.

Omni channel
Omni-channel retail (or omnichannel commerce) is a multichannel approach to sales that focus on providing seamless customer experience whether the client is shopping online from a mobile device, a laptop or in a brick-and-mortar store.

Parasite stores
A retail outlet that do not have a trading area of its own and even do not have its own traffic. It is dependent on customers who are pulled towards the area for some other reasons.
A parasite store is a small store/outlet, which neither has its own floor area nor its own customer traffic. The size, nature and timing of these stores, depend on people/ visitors who are drawn to that location for their own reason. The reason for their visit may be to meet government officials, attending a Seminar or Conference in a Hotel, or Railway/Airline booking.
A Coffee Parlour in a Shopping Centre, a Magazine and Newspaper Stall in a Hotel Lobby and a Hair Saloon/Beauty Parlour in a PVR Cinema Complex, all are examples of Parasites. The purpose for using the term ‘parasite’ is to convey the sense that customers visit these locations not because of their presence but patronize these stores while they are there.
Parasite store depends on existing traffic flow of a shopping centre or retail business area. In actual, as such, it has no identity of its own and standing in the line of retail business. Customers visit these stores not because of its sales promotion efforts, customer service, store image and merchandising efforts, but the circumstantial visits made by the customers to these hosts (shopping complexes, malls, hotels, government offices, public places or railway/Metro stations). 

Pop-up stores
Pop-up retail, also known as pop-up store or flash retailing, is a trend of opening short-term sales spaces that last for days to weeks before closing down, often to catch onto a fad or scheduled event. 

Predatory pricing
Predatory pricing is the illegal act of setting prices low in an attempt to eliminate the competition. Predatory pricing violates antitrust law, as it makes markets more vulnerable to a monopoly. 

Plano-gram
A planogram is a visual merchandising tool. Planograms are detailed drawings of your store layout with special attention on product placement. 

Rain check
A coupon issued to a customer by a shop, guaranteeing that a sale item which is out of stock may be purchased by that customer at a later date at the same reduced price.

Same-store sales
Same-store sales is a business term that refers to the difference in revenue generated by a retail chain's existing outlets over a certain period (often a fiscal quarter or a particular shopping season), compared to an identical period in the past, usually in the previous year.

Showrooming
Showrooming is the practice of examining merchandise in a traditional brick-and-mortar retail store or other offline setting, and then buying it online, sometimes at a lower price. ... The reverse phenomenon of showrooming is webrooming.

Ticket size
Average ticket is a metric that provides details on the average amount of sales per customer. Statistically, the average ticket is computed as the mean size and is calculated by adding total sales over a specified period of time and dividing by the number of customers.
It is used by a range of businesses when analyzing business performance, sales activity, and profitability. 

Top-down space Management approach
Top-down inventory control and planning involves setting a sales and inventory plan at a high classification level and pushing it down to a more detailed level—from the top, down. The lowest level of classification that a plan is set to depend on the company. For example, a retailer who manages multiple categories across a women’s business may set their sales and inventory plans at a very high level—tops, bottoms, and accessories. If this company’s highest revenue driving category is bottoms, they may set sales and inventory plans for that area at a deeper level of classification (pants, skirts, shorts etc).

Trade Area analysis
Trade area analysis is a primary analytic service performed by Mapping Analytics. ... A trade area analysis typically includes: Mapping existing customers in relation to store locations. Calculating distance/drive times from customers to store locations. Determining all variables that define and impact your trade areas.

Universal product code
A UPC, short for universal product code, is a type of code printed on retail product packaging to aid in identifying a particular item. It consists of two parts – the machine-readable barcode, which is a series of unique black bars, and the unique 12-digit number beneath it.

Value retailing
Value retailing is a big format store concept, where branded products and accessories are sold under best deals. This concept is mainly planned mainly for II and III tier cities with the promotion of mega savings offer. These cities have good potential providing as aspiration to the consumers to buy products at best deals. Value retail stores offer products with an inexpensive price tag. Also their promotions take the guise of price-cuts, added freebies, off-labels, added discounts on big bill-sizes and many more. 

Visual merchandising
Visual merchandising is a marketing practice that uses floor plans, color, lighting, displays, technology, and other elements to attract customer attention. Its ultimate purpose is to use the retail space to generate more sales.

Wearable technology
Wearable technology, also known as "wearables", is a category of electronic devices that can be worn as accessories, embedded in clothing, implanted in the user's body, or even tattooed on the skin. ... The rapid adoption of such devices has placed wearable technology at the forefront of the Internet of things (IoT).



Store-based Retail Strategy Mix
9 Different types of retail stores
Today, consumer can shop for goods and services in a wide variety of stores. The important types of retail stores are:

    Speciality store
    Department store
    Super market
    Convenience store
    Discount store
    Off-price retailer
    Superstore
    Hypermarket; and
    Catalogue showroom.

1. Speciality store
Speciality stores carry very limited product lines with deep assortment. They offer a wide choice in terms of models, size, style, colour and other important attributes in the assortment carried.

2. Department store
A departmental store is a large retail outlet that handles a wide variety of lines of product. It has a wide assortment in each line and is organized into separate departments for purposes of buying, promotion, services and control. It is sometimes called mass merchandising departmental store e.g., military canteens.

3. Super markets
A supermarket is designed to serve the total needs for food, laundry and household maintenance products. It is relatively large in size. Its operation is low cost, low margin, high volume and self service in nature.

4. Convenience store
A convenience store is located near residential area. It is relatively small. It is kept open for long hours. A limited lines of convenience products are offered for sale. The prices charged are slightly higher.

5. Discount store
A discount store sells standard merchandise at lower prices. Higher volumes of sales compensate lower margins and increase the overall profitability. Discount retailing has moved into speciality merchandise stores such as sport goods stores, electronics stores and book shops.

6. Off price retailer
An off-price retailer sells left over goods, over runs, and irregulars obtained at reduced prices from manufactures or other retailers. Off price retailers may be of three types.
	1. Factory outlets
		These are owned and operated by manufacturers. They carry the manufacturer’s surplus, discontinued or irregular goods. e.g., dinner ware, shoes, upscale apparel, etc.
	2. Independent off price retailer
		Independent off-price retailers are owned and run by entrepreneurs or by divisions of larger retail corporations.
	3. Warehouse clubs

		These are otherwise known as wholesale clubs. They sell a limited selection of brand-name grocery items, appliances, clothing etc.

7. Super store
Super stores meet consumers’ total needs for routinely purchased food and nonfood items.

8. Hyper Markets
Hyper markets originated in France. Hyper markets combine speciality stores, limited line stores in a single level store. Product assortment goes beyond routinely purchased goods. It includes furniture, large and small appliances, clothing items, etc.
Bulk display and minimum handling by store personnel are the other features present in the hyper markets. Discount is offered to customers who are willing to carry heavy appliances and furniture out of the store.

9. Catalogue showroom
Customers order goods from a catalogue in the showroom. Then, they pick these goods up at a merchandise pickup area in the store.


Non-store Retail Formats
Electronic Retailing
Catalog and Direct Mail
Direct Selling
Television Home Shopping
Vending Machines


“What are the three most important things in retailing?” 
It is “Location, location, location.” 

Why is store location such an important decision for a retailer? 
First, location is typically one of the most influential considerations in a customer’s store choice. For instance, when choosing where you’re going to have your car washed, you usually pick the location closest to your home or work. Most consumers similarly shop at the supermarket closest to them.
Second, location decisions have strategic importance because they can be used to develop a sustainable competitive advantage. If a retailer has the best location—that is, the location that is most attractive to its customers— competitors can’t copy this advantage. Competitors are relegated to occupying the second-best location.
Third, location decisions are risky. Typically, when retailers select a location, they either must make a substantial investment to buy and develop the real estate or must commit to a long-term lease with developers. Retailers often commit to leases for 5 to 15 years.

Types and relative advantages of three types of locations available to retailers— unplanned, planned, and nontraditional.
Unplanned (freestanding and urban sites)
Unplanned locations do not have any centralized management that determines what stores will be in a development, where the specific stores will be located, or how they will be operated.

Planned (shopping centers)
In planned locations, a shopping center developer and/or manager makes and enforces policies that govern store operations, such as the hours that a store must be open. Such managers also are responsible to maintain common facilities such as the parking area—an arrangement referred to as common area maintenance (CAM)—and provide security, parking lot lighting, outdoor signage for the center, advertising, special events to attract consumers, and so on.














Identify retailing activities.
Retailing is defined as a set of business activities that add value to the products and services sold to consumers for their personal or family use. These value-added activities include providing assortments, breaking bulk, holding inventory, and providing services.


Various types of food retailers.
Food retailing has undergone substantial expansion. Whereas once supermarkets were nearly the only source for food shoppers, today they can choose among traditional supermarkets, hypermarkets or superstores, limited-assortment markets, warehouse clubs, online grocers, and convenience stores, to name a few.


Multi-channel and Omni-channel


The relative strengths of the major retail channels: stores; Internet, mobile, and social; and catalog and other nonstore channels.
Stores offer several benefits to customers that they cannot get when they shop through nonstore channels. These benefits include touch and smell of products, personal service, risk reduction, immediate gratification, entertainment and social experience, and cash payment. There are multiple advantages of Internet, mobile, and social channels. First, they can offer a wider selection of products. Second, they allow retailers to provide more information. Third, they enable retailers to inform customers, using more personalized details about products and services. Fourth, they offer sellers the unique opportunity to collect information about consumer shopping. Fifth, Internet and mobile channels provide an opportunity for retailers to enter new markets economically. Sixth, they provide information that the retailer can use to improve the shopping experience across all channels. However, some consumers are concerned about buying products through an Internet or mobile channel. In an adjunct to the Internet and mobile channels, social retailing involves conducting purchase transactions through a social media site, giving consumers yet another opportunity to buy. The catalog channel, like all nonstore channels, provides safety and convenience benefits to customers. Using the catalog channel, consumers can look at merchandise and place an order from almost anywhere 24/7 without needing a computer, mobile device, or Internet connection. Consumers also can refer to the information in a catalog anytime by simply picking it up from the coffee table. Finally, catalogs can be easier to browse through than websites.


The Buying Process
Consumers go through several stages when making a purchase decision: need recognition, information search, evaluation of alternatives, purchase, and postpurchase evaluation. It is important for retailers to understand how they can nudge their customers closer to a buying decision at each step of their buying process. The importance of the stages depends on the nature of the customer’s decision. When decisions are important and risky, the buying process is longer because customers spend more time and effort on the information search and evaluation of alternatives. When buying decisions are less important to customers, they spend little time in the buying process, and their buying behavior may become habitual.


How retailers build a sustainable competitive advantage.
Three approaches for developing a sustainable competitive advantage are (1) building strong relationships with customers, (2) building strong relationships with suppliers, and (3) achieving efficient internal operations. Each of these approaches involves developing an asset—loyal customers, strong vendor relationships, committed effective human resources, efficient systems, and attractive locations—that is not easily duplicated by competitors. To build an advantage that is sustainable for a long period of time, retailers typically cannot rely on a single approach, such as good locations or excellent customer service. Instead, they use multiple approaches to build as high a wall around their position as possible.


Steps retailers go through to develop a strategic plan.
(1) define the business mission, 
(2) conduct a SWOT analysis, 
(3) identify strategic opportunities, 
(4) evaluate strategic opportunities, 
(5) establish specific objectives and allocate resources, 
(6) develop a retail mix to implement the strategy, and
(7) evaluate performance and make adjustments.


Types of Retail locations
Two basic types of location are unplanned (freestanding and urban sites) and planned (shopping centers). Unplanned locations do not have centralized management that determines what stores will be in a development, where the specific stores will be located, and how they will be operated. The three types of unplanned retail locations are freestanding sites, urban, and Main Street locations. Freestanding locations are convenient for customers and have high vehicular traffic and visibility, modest occupancy costs, and few restrictions. But freestanding sites are higher in cost and have smaller trade areas. In general, urban locations have lower occupancy costs than enclosed malls; vehicular traffic is limited, and parking problems reduce consumer convenience. Many central business districts, inner-city, and Main Street locations have become more viable options than they were in the past because of gentrification of the areas, tax incentives, and lack of competition.


The site selection process
(1) conduct a competitive analysis, 
(2) define the present trade area, 
(3) analyze the trade area’s characteristics, and 
(4) match characteristics of the present trade area with potential sites.


Various ways to implement effective CRM programs
Using the information about customers, retailers can develop programs to build loyalty in their best customers, increase their share of wallet with better customers (e.g., convert gold customers into platinum customers), and deal with unprofitable customers (getting the lead out). Four approaches that retailers use to build loyalty and retain their better customers are (1) launch frequent shopper programs, (2) offer special customer services, (3) personalize the services they provide, and (4) build a sense of community. To deal with unprofitable customers identified by their CRM data, retailers need to develop lower-cost approaches to serve them, or else exclude those customers altogether from the retail offer.


Private Labels