Good afternoon everyone.
So, the company I interned with is Sports365. It was a 2 month internship. and it was virtual for its entire duration.

About Sports 365
So Sports365 was established in 2012. It is headquartered in Bangalore. It is an E- commerce based India’s premier sports and fitness company that provides one stop solution for all sporting related requirements of institutions like clubs and Academies, schools, colleges, corporates etc. Basically, The aim of the company is to bring sporting revolution in India and become the prime member for sporting needs across the country. Sports 365 owns various online portals like Tennis365.in, Running365.in, Sports365.in.

Currently the Services offered to these Institution are Sports and fitness equipments, sports infrastructure, sports merchandise design, events and consulting.

It is also recognized as one of the Best 50s start-ups of India. The company is supported by sports & fitness icons like Mahesh Bhupathi, Yuvraj Singh & Lara Dutta.

But now the company is trying to diversify its portfolio. Other than sports and fitness equipments now they are trying to sell school uniforms, also securityguard uniforms to agencies. Also they are trying to sell essential equipments to hospitals like Aprons, face mask, Surgeons Gowns, hand- gloves (disposable), Cap etc.

So on the righ side you can see the list, this is basically the product portfolio of Sports365 that they opearte on.

Now moving on to the objective of the Internship. Basically I did 3 things in my Internship. 1st is Sales 2nd is Social Media Marketing and the 3rd is Research Project.
In sale the objective was To generate sales and lead in the industries in which the company was diversifying which are mostly Uniforms and Hospitals.
And also Relationship Management with the existing customers. Basically there was already a database, for exising customers and probable leads, so we have to keep on connecting with them and ask if any new requirements are there or not. 

And 2nd Objective was Social Media Marketing,
Here the objective was To create a social media calendar for the month of June which will increase engagement on social media platforms	
And also another objective was to come up with an Ideas for events that can be organized on the social media handles. Like some kind of contest or quiz.

And the 3rd one is research project that I did to understand Sports industry. The objective of the research was to understand how digital equipments & Technological Innovations are transforming sports & fitness industry and what opportunities are there for Sports365 to venture into.

So these were the objectives of my internship. Now moving on to Methodology

So the methodology that I used for Sales or Leads generation is 1st is Information gathering. So basically I was asked to collect information of all hospitals, seccurity agencies, and builders and developers present in Nagpur region and then as the company was focusing on southern cities so I have also been assigned to collect the information for Kochi region also. So, I have collected all the information available on the net and created an database. After that the next step was pitching an initial offer. That is to ask them about their requirements and if they showed an interest, then pitched our initial offer to them. So through this discussion we came to know about their requirements and about their budget and all. Then after that do the budget analysis and analyse whether this deal will be profitable or not. Based on that analysis next step was to form an detailed plan of action about what we can offer to them as per the requirements and the budget. And the next step was timeline finalization and then close the deal. So basically this was the lifecycle which was followed throughout this sales process.

Now moving on to social media marketing, here the method was first to identify the theme, that is what kind of content we will post, here basically guidelines was given to us by the team working on this, so based on that guidelines we have created a calendar for the month of July i.e on each and every day what content will be posted through the channels. Next step, that is after deciding the content we have to get it approved from the senior design team so after their approval the post will be put up on the channels and then in the last analyze the reactions.

And the next is research project. Here In secondary research I have read various articles, research papers, blogs to understand the topic and then identify the important factors. So, Based on the secondary research I have formed Questionnaires for both survey and In-depth interviews. Then, In primary research I did qualitative research, in qualitative research I have floated a survey questionnaires, that is google forms through whatsapp to the target population and also I did few In-depth interviews with some of the stakeholders.

Now moving on to the result section

In sales I have created a database of about 198 clients and  generated about 4 leads who were quite interested in the products that we were offering and they have asked for brochures and more information about the deals..and there were about 9 different other leads who have shown somewhat interest at the initial stages and told that they will contact later. So this is the image of the database that I have created.

Now next is the social media calendar, here we have created the content or theme for each day what we will post and on what will be the topic of the post....so we have created hashtags like MondayMotivattion, ThrowbackThursday etc. This image shows what we have created.

Now the next is results that I got for my research project through qualitative research
	Around 60%of respondents believed that sports are changing rapidly because of digitalization.
	The results indicated that performance measurement tools required upgradation to prevent injuries and analyse the athlete’s performance.
	Respondents also said that It is not necessary to go to gym or Outdoor for fitness. It can be achieved by working out at home through Online health monitoring Apps and video platforms ( where videos lessons are shared by fitness instructors)
	The results show that most of the respondents play fantasy league games and they believe that it keeps them much more interested in the sport. 
	Also, the results show that sports is changing rapidly because of digitalization and they believe it will continue to change for good.

Now moving on to the recommendation part,
So what I think is that Sports365 needs to clearly define its mission statement, that what business they are going to venture into, currently what I have seen is that the company is uncertain about whom to target and what strategies the company should adopt.
Also, I have observed that supply chain is inefficient. It takes a long time for order completion, which the company can improve.
Also, from the research project,
	The results showed that more and more youngsters are attracted towards online mode of gaming. So, Sports 365 can partner with gaming platforms and offer services to its customer base (mostly schools and colleges).
	Also, the results indicated that participants think that the same level of fitness can be achieved by working out at home, so Sports 365 can either launch a fitness app or partner with a fitness expert and provide online video instructions to do home exercise to its customers.
	When interviewed coaches and athletes they agreed on fact that more high level equipments (like hawk- eye in cricket) are needed and they are ready to implement this in their game or coaching arenas, so sports 365 can offer such equipments to sports club or Organizations who are looking for sports related equipments.
	Similarly, like fitness apps, Sports 365 can also collaborate with fantasy league games and offer its services to its customer base. The main target audience for this will be teenagers (people under the age of 30).

So, the key learnings or takeaway for me from this 2 month internship period was that during
	Interaction with different business process owners, it has helped me in better understanding of their problems. This entails laying out the major issues and developing a strategy for moving forward.
	Understanding the work that is currently going in Sports 365. That is understanding the importance of numerous processes as well as their impact on company's goals and operations.
	Also, Understanding the numerous aspects required in executing a successful sales or lead generation.
	Gaining a thorough grasp of how Sports 365 functions across several business sectors. Like how they manage corporates acconts and how they manage schools or clubs and all.
	Insights on the organization's current Salesforce automation and Distributor management systems.
	Throughout this internship, I have learnt different project management skills like effective communication, taking responsibility, strategy formulation, time management and negotiation.
So I believe all this things will help in future .

That's all about my internship. Thank you very much for your patience listening.