Introduce Yourself? 
Let me start by some personal info:
My name is Snehasish Kumar Paul.
I was born and brought up in Nagpur, Maharashtra, where I did my schooling from KV Nagpur. After that I have completed my UG from GCOEA in ENTC stream. 
Now talking about my Work Experience-
Basically I have been part of two very different Organizations. 1st is TCS and 2nd is Sports365.
In TCS I have worked for around 21 months as EIS, PLM Developer. In TCS, I used to worked for Ashok Leyland as a client resource. There I have worked as technical expertise where I did 3 things- 1st is system development using software tools like java, HTML, MQL, Oracle Database where we have created an upgradeed version of an system which has speed up the process and improved the efficiency by 20%. 2nd is Coordinating with client team to understand the requirement and ensure on time delivery and quality management and the 3rd one is Developing user test cases and creating reports summarizing work completion status.
2nd organization is Sports365
In my summers I have interned with Sports 365 as Sales and Marketing Intern. Basically Sports365 is a E-commerce based platform which provides one stop solution for all sporting requirements. In my internship I did 3 things, 1st is Sales where I have generated 16 leads, 2nd is Social Media Marketing, and the 3rd one is Research project  Titled " Digital Transformation in Sports Industry".
Apart from this I have experience in managing event and also I was a part of the event sponsorship team during my college stint.
I have won many awards latest one being is that I was awarded 5* rating for my performance in TCS and also awarded best performer of the quater for 3 consecutive times. Also, In my college We were one of the finalists of National Robotics competion where more than 100+ teams have participated all over the India. I have won Cricket tournamnets for my both school and college teams multiple times.

Now, Speaking about my hobbies, I have always been a sports person throughout my school days. I have participated in lots of different sports events, particularly 4- Cricket, Football, Kho-Kho and Athletics. I have represented my school and college team in cricket in regional level.
And now talking about about my character, I would love to describe it in 3 points
1st is I am very hardworking, 
2nd is I am very patient i.e I have the ability to stay calm under pressure,
and the last one is that I quickly adapt myself to any situation.

That's all about me sir. 

Let me end my introduction with a rhyme- No one can change my soul, my name is Snehasish Paul.

Hello everyone. My full name is Snehasish Kumar Paul.
I was born and brought up in Nagpur, Maharashtra, where I did my schooling from KV Nagpur. And I have completed my UG from GCOEA in ENTC stream. 
After that, I joined TCS and worked there for around 21 months as EIS, PLM Developer. In TCS, I used to worked for Ashok Leyland as a client resource. I have worked in TCS as technical expertise where I had 3 Key responsibilities- 1st is system development using software tools like java, HTML, MQL, Oracle Database. 2nd is Coordinating with client team to understand the requirement and ensure on time delivery and quality management and the 3rd one is Developing user test cases and creating reports summarizing work completion status.
After that, I have enrolled in IMT Ghaziabad. So here I am pursuing my master's in Marketing stream.
In my summers I have interned with Sports 365 as Sales and Marketing Intern. Basically Sports365 is a E-commerce based platform which provides one stop solution for all sporting requirements. In my internship I did 3 things, 1st is Sales, 2nd is Social Media Marketing, and the 3rd one is Research project  Titled " Digital Transformation in Sports Industry".
Now, Speaking about my hobbies, I have always been a sports person during my school days. I have participated in lots of events, particularly 4- Cricket, Football, Kho-Kho and Athletics. I have represented my school and college team in cricket in regional level.
Apart from this I have experience in managing event and also I was a part of the event sponsorship team during my college stint.
And now talking about about my character,I am very hardworking, I am very patient, and I quickly adapt myself to any situation.

That's all about me sir. 




Why MBA?
First is, to learn different skills set or to broaden my skill set. As earlier I was working for TCS as a technical expertise I.e  I was more in a technical things. But I feel that I can do this job as well as the managerial job within the domain if I understand many perspectives that are involved in business. Earlier what was happening is that I was doing work for the organization but I was not aware of the business perspective of it. (Let me give you one example...I was working with Ashok Leyland on a project which was related to Costa Rica....In India generally what we see is that colour of most vehicles are either Black, Yellow or Red....but when We were developing the model for Costa Rica we were designing the vehicle of Blue and Beige were prime colors....when I asked about this they told me that based on the survey done by their marketing team the preferred color of that region was blue and beige. So this is the primary reason to do MBA.) If I understand how the marketing works, what are the finances involved to build a product from initial stage to final product. How logistics work. If I understand all these aspects then only I will be able to do my job much better. That is one of the reason to do MBA i.e. to broaden my skill set. To gain more business domain knowledge. 
Secondly persuing MBA has given me a Holistic view or Big Picture View of how business runs. Before MBA what I was lack was better understanding of the surroundings, what is the rationale behind this marketing approach and all. How the business is evolving and what will change in future. Doing an MBA will equip me with all these views to make a better decision maker. Also, It will enhance my orientation skill and enable me to contribute smartly to the business world. 




Short Term Goal

I think it is really important to set goals for yourself.  Throughout my career, I've always created short-term goals to help guide my career advancement at a steady and realistic pace. Now my short term goals would be to quickly settle into the new role and learn as much as possible and help the company grow. Because this is the beginning and most of the learning happens during initial stages only. The 1st two years would be to gain as much as experience and knowledge as possible. To get as much exposure as possible so that I can take up higher responsibilities whenever needed and prepare myself for the future advancements. 

Mid term goal

Few years down the line, I would love to see myself in a strategic position such as heading the sales/marketing of a particular product category, where I can take decisions which have a big impact on the company’s operations and can execute my suggestions and ideas to enhance the company growth.

Long term goal

My long term goal would be to take up on leadership role and be an integral part of senior management team. After working for long period still there will be certain things that I needed to explore or do the things my way. That could be achieved by taking extra responsibilities and be in a leadership position. 




Why shouldn't we hire you? 
If you are looking for someone whom you can micromanage means just like robot then I think I am not that candidate.  I work better when I'm given some general guidelines with the desired outcome and am then allowed some freedom regarding how I would carry out that task.
Also You shouldn't hire me if an extrovert wouldn't fit in well at your company or in this job. 




Why should we hire you? 
Apart from the sales and marketing skills required for this job, the most important thing is interpersonal skills, building relationships among different people of different background  and also managing network is the key. And I think till now I have done this successfully throughout my career. In my college I have organized event, I was the POC for the event sponsorship team ( I have build good relations there with my peers and also different organization people), I have captained my school and college team in sports which reflects my leadership skills and good fit for team. During my work tenure with TCS also I have build good relationships and also I was awarded the 5* rating for my performance. So I think I am good fit for this job. 
And also I think everybody wants to be in win win situation. So yeah I think you should hire me. 




Why should we hire you? *
Apart from the sales and marketing skills required for this job,the most important thing is interpersonal skills, building relationships among different people of different background and also managing network is the key. And I think till now I have done this successfully throughout my career. In my college I have organized event, I was the POC for the event sponsorship team ( I have build good relations there with my peers and also different organization people), I have captained my school and college team in sports which reflects my leadership skills and good fit for team. During my work tenure with TCS also I have build good relationships and also I was awarded the 5* rating for my performance . Also I am very quickly adaptable to any situation for example 4 years I was in hostel during my college, also for TCS first I was in Trivandrum and then move to Chennai where no one knows Hindi but I quickly got familiar with every one of my team members. So I think I am good fit for this job.
And also I think everybody wants to be in win win situation. So yeah I think you should hire me. 




What makes you stand out from other candidates applying for this position?
High level of creativity or Good Analytical and Problem solving skills
Leadership qualities
Negotiation and persuasion skills
Presentation skills
Self-motivation
Ability to stay calm and focused under pressure

High level of creativity- I believe there is no standard definition of creativity, it can be anything, you can be creative about anything, the way you do things. For me the way way I talk to people is creative in itself. How I manage my network is unique and different from others. And for example if I have to give creativity in my work then in our curriculum there was a course called Design Thinking and Innovation..where our group has developed an website which was very creative. The topic for our project was how will you popularize DT in schools, so we have developed an quizzing website based on snakes and laddder. Which was very fun and at the same time you can learn also.

Leadership qualities- I have taken leadership role many times in my carrer, I was captain of my university cricket team. Also, I was the head of Event Sponsorship team during college fests. I like to take initiatives whenever possible, here in my MBA journey also, I always take initiatives whle doing group activities.

Negotiation and persuasion skills- In my summers I was doing sales job, there I understand how to approach for a structured negotiations, before that it was all about un-structured negotiations, this is something that we are doing throughout our life but it was with the ones whom we know they know us, but here while working for company I have to do negotiations with clients or people we don't know which brings out the challenge. In this case you have to be really good with your propositions and you should make them feel important which is the key to negotiation and I was given good feedback by my mentor. so that's why I consider myself as good negotiator.

Ability to stay calm and focused under pressure- As MBA journey is not very easy, you have to be mentally very strong because each and every day there comes a challenge, you are meeting big leaders or taking part in competions, so you get that confidence in yourself to stay calm and you get the understanding of the situation and respond accordingly. Take this example only, here I am sitting with you, yes I am little bit of nervous, but at the same time I am quite excited for this also, so there is a balance that every individual have to find, which I believe I handle effectively.




What is the difference between Confidence and Over- Confidence?
Confidence is being aware of your own potential, you have idea of your strengths and weaknesses.
Over- Confidence is when you over-estimate your potential and also being unaware of others potential and worth.




What is the difference between Hardwork and Smartwork?
Hardwork is doing your work with full dedication rather than skills. Whereas Smartwork is done with skills and it is utilizing more of your knowledge.
More importantly, Hardwork is the beginning of Smartwork. Without doing or going through Hardwork phase you cannot achieve smartness.




Why do you want to work at our company?
Indeed it shall be a privilege for any aspiring professional to have a fruitful career with a reputed firm like yours.
I believe the skillset & experience I possess not only shall bring value to your organization, but in turn shall also help me to acquire experience & sharpen my skills with your organization’s professional work culture.
If given an opportunity I positively look forward to give my best to your organization.




Describe your Leadership Style?
Lead by facilitating communication: “Communication is one of my greatest strengths. I lead by facilitating open communication, and trying to bring out the best in every team member”.
Lead by delegating and making others better: “I’m great at delegating and finding the strengths of other team members. I try to give each person a chance to do what they’re best at and create a team effort that delivers a result that’s greater than the sum of its parts”. And for this to happen communication is the key. I believe in a team environment you have to treat every individual differently as everyone does not have same personality so you have to make sure how you are dealing with individuals. You have to make everyone feel important.




Describe your Communication Style?
Assertive- I think that I always express my own needs, desires, ideas and feelings, while also considering the needs of others. I always take ownership of my tasks and while communicating I maintain positive eye contact which makes the other person intersted. I Voice my needs and desires confidently.




Can you work under pressure? *
Pressure is in every task that we do. Taking the example of my MBA journey, here in 75 days we have been taught 8 subjects, we have to prepare final projects for each of this subjects, we have to pass in every subject with more than 70% to get good placement offers, attendance should be more than 80% percent. Other than all the academics work, we have college cultural activities, prepare for placements, doing online courses for self upgrading our skills. So, in just this small span of time, we are doing all this work. There isn't a day where there is a free schedule. So, in whatever task we do,we are under pressure to come out the best. Till now, I have able to perform all the activities mentioned above with great result. Apart from all this, I have worked in TCS where I have to complete my tasks within a deadline and respond to a client within a given deadline.




What motivates you to do good job? *
Recognition and being appreciated for my efforts motivates me. Apart from this there are other internal and external factors are there that motivates me. Internal factors is being in a competitive environment,doing my best to do a better job than my colleagues. I feel like if my colleagues can do a job than Ican also do it. And other external factors of motivation for me is money, fame(recognition) for good work.




Give an example of your creativity? *
In my view,creativity is something which can't be define by some of alphabets,its just a reaction according to the situation,and the result in itself is creativity.
Creativity is not about creating new thoughts, it is about improving things which can also be referred as modification. Every action I take in my day to day life is unique in itself, which can also be referred .as creativity.




Explain how you would be an asset to this organization? *
I have good communication skills, which is an biggest asset. As building
networking is the key to any business. Being an extrovert helps me bond better with others.
 
 


Who has inspired you in life and why? *
All my colleagues, friends with whom Iam doing MBA has inspire me or inspiring me. Every one of my friends has different qualities which I like about them, it inspires me lot to know how they think and improve my thinking.




How Do You Define Success And How Do You Measure Up To Your Own Definition? *
For me, success is satisfaction of efforts made to achieve goals. If you ask about measuring success, we don't have parameters to measure. But still we can measure it by the joy after achieving success.




Where Do You See Yourself Five Years From Now? *
I would love to see myself in a strategic position such as heading the
sales/marketing of a particular product category, where I can take decisions which have a big impact on the company's operations and can execute my suggestions and ideas to enhance the company growth.




What are your strengths and weaknesses? *
Strengths- Adaptability, Patience,Hardworking,Flexibility {Multi-Tasking) 
Hardworking- I was awarded 5* rating for my performance, I was also awarded best employer for 3 consecutive quarters. I was being praised by both my SIP mentor and also by mentor during short term project mentor for the work I did.
Adaptability- After 12th I move to a city Amravati which was mostly dominated by Maharashtrians and people speak in their local languages, I have spen 4 years there and also during my work-ex I was in Trivandrum and then in chennai for almost 2 years so I have adapted well there and came out with flying colors.
Flexibility- I did my MBA preparation with my Job so I was quite flexible in that regard and also here we are doing STPs, academics, sports so managing all these activities you have to be flexible and I believe that I am excelling in all of these areas. 

Weaknesses- Outspoken, Can't say no




Why Marketing?
Marketing is a advertising activity. It is Creating brand awareness in the market and generates demand for the product. This activity is to identify the customer demand and then come up with a solution. It let the customer decide whether they want the product or not. 
Marketing is a pull strategy where customer demands the product after seeing advertisement whereas sales is a pull strategy.
(a) An Open Arena: 
What interests me the most about marketing is that unlike finance or other domains it has no set rules to follow, we have an open arena to innovate and pour in all our creativity. It’s like a blank slate and it’s up to the marketer to employ his creative genius and craft the most compelling proposition.
(b) Demand Never Slumps: 
“The marketing industry has existed right from the time humans decided to brush their teeth, wash themselves, wash their clothes, groom themselves, clean their homes, and since then the demand has only grown. Talking of the FMCG industry alone, the FMCG industry is growing at approximately 15%, with changing lifestyles of the consumers and the untapped potential of rural markets, it is bound to grow even more in future. This disproportionate growth opportunity intrigues me.”
(c)  Directly Impacts the Way People Live: 
“There’s a constant interplay between marketing and societal changes. The potential of marketing to adapt itself to the changes in the society at times, and to change the society itself the others is what excites me to be a part of this change. It enables you to directly impact the way people live, dress, communicate, among so many other aspects. ”
(d) Constantly Innovate & Learn: 
“Marketing entails immense learning opportunities as you get to work at the grassroots with the customers, trying to feel their pulse and understand their psyche. Moreover, the consumers and their consumption habits change dynamically, therefore, it requires you to be on your toes always and keeps you reinvigorated with constant change to innovate and change.”

Why Marketing?
I think marketing is a activity to identify the customer demand and then come up with a solution. I would like to give you 4 reason why I would love to build my carrer in marketing.
1st I believe it is An Open Arena: 
What interests me the most about marketing is that unlike other domains it has no set rules to follow, we have an open arena to innovate and pour in all our creativity. It’s up to the marketer to employ his creative genius and craft the most compelling proposition.
2nd reason is that Demand Never Slumps: 
No matter at what state the business is in marketing will always be there. It is only growing and growing.
“The marketing industry has existed right from the time humans decided to sell something. The opportunity present in this industry intrigues me.”
3rd is that it Directly Impacts the Way People Live: 
“There’s a constant interplay between marketing and societal changes. The potential of marketing to adapt itself to the changes in the society at times, and to change the society itself the others is what excites me to be a part of this change. It enables you to directly impact the way people live, communicate, among so many other aspects. ”
and the last is that it allows you to Constantly Innovate & Learn: 
“Marketing entails immense learning opportunities as you get to work at the grassroots with the customers, trying to feel their pulse and understand their psyche. Moreover, the consumers and their consumption habits change dynamically, therefore, it requires you to be on your toes always and keeps you updated with constant change to innovate and change.”




Why Sales?
Sales is a performance based carrer. I want to chose a sales career because sales is one of the few professions where your hard work, strategic thinking, thorough preparation literally pays off. I believe it is a rewarding carrer. It all depends on how enthusiast you are towards the job. The more you sell the more profit you can earn. And I think this is a competitive field. And as a sportsperson I love being in competitive scenarios. And I have always noticed that I work better in any competitive scenario. It brings the best out of me. When there is some target to be achieved it drives me to work harder. And the more important think in sales is that you have to be outspoken, you should be extrovert and should have good  communication and listening skills. And I believe I posses this qualities in me. Which can be an added advantage for me in sales job.



Sell me a pen
Let me start by asking you a question?
When was the last time you used a pen/---?
Do you remember what kind of pen/--- that was?
Do you remember what were you using for? I mean for what purpose?
So, wouldnt you say that the work you are doing is important to you?
Dont you think this should be treated like an important entity. What I mean to say is that doing work with this pen is important aspect of your routine.
There are certainly many day to day products without which our lives are difficult but still we never give much thought to this.
So here I am presenting you this pen/--- for full filling your daily needs. Dont think it as a small product. Think it is a symbol for you and when you start using a right product eventually you will be more productive.
Actually this week I have sold more than 100 boxes of this product . Unfortunately this is the last batch.
So, I suggest you get this pen/---. Try it out, if you are not happy with its performance, I will personally come back next week to pick it up. And it wont cost you a dime.
What do you say? Would you like to purchase?




Do your Swot Analysis.
Strengths- Adaptability, Patience,Hardworking,Flexibil ty {Multi-Tasking). I am good in communication. I have professional experience at TCS which I beilev woukd help in future engagements on how to work in a team environment and how to cope up with the pressure. I am open to new learnings. Throughout this MBA journey I have participated in many competitions, and have done different courses to enhance my skills.
Weaknesses- Outspoken, Can't say no
Opportunities- go out and explore different roles, work in a big project to prepare myself for future opportunities whenever it comes.
Threats- I believe everyone in IMT has some potential. Evidence has crossed many hurdles to come here so, all the other candidates other than me are threat to me. And this is also one of the reason why it pushes me to work more harder to compete because competition here is very strong and it drives me to be the best version of myself.




SIP
In the Summer I have interned with Sports365 as an sales and Marketing intern. Basically Sports365 provides one stop solution for the sporting requirements of instituitions like clubs, academics, schools, collleges, corporates and many more. As most of the schools and colleges were closed during the months of may - june. So, Sports365 was trying to diversify its business into different sectors like...they were trying to enter into clothing markets for security guards uniforms, hospitals aprons, mask, gloves and they were trying to form relation with builders and developers who builds sporting grounds or Courts on there construction sites to see if there is any requiremnt. So my job was to create database for potential customers which includes all Security Agencies, Hospitals and Builders & Developers present in the city. And then cold calling them and ask them if they have any requiremnts for the goods that we are offering. I have been assigned to work on two cities First one is Nagpur and 2nd city is Kochi (Kerala). Other than that We were also handling social media pages for the company. What content to post on what day....like we have created subject based on different days...for Monday it is Monday Motivational Quotes, on Tuesday some facts and like this we have created contents to post. And also we have created contest for the follwers on social media to increase interactivity.
Apart from this, I also did a research project during internship regarding the context of my internship. The title of my research was "Digital Transformation in Sports Industry". In that I have done qualitative study, where I have tried to understand the perception of athletes, coaches and managers towards using of more digital tools or techniques in sports. Firstly I have created a survey form based on my secondary research where I have identified few concepts and constructs (or factors) and prepared questions based on that factors. After evaluating the responses from the online survey, to get more deeper understanding, I did In-depth interviews with few coaches and athletes and come to a conclusion based on the interview results.
So, this was all about my summer internship.





https://hackingthecaseinterview.thinkific.com/pages/why-consulting
Why Consulting?
When I got picked up by TCS after graduation...you know at that time IT industry was something that I always wanted to do be a part of. Means I was good with softwares and languages. So that intersts me. So, I was in chennai workig for TCS, in my team there were few consultants with whom I have formed good relations there. Before that I was not very sure about what consulting is all about. But when I became friends with those colleagues there I came to know about the consulting roles. Means what they do...they were always working with different clients. And I have observed that in one year they have worked for three different organizations. The kind of exposure those consultants get was quite fascinating to see. That's when I have started developing interest about taking up an consultant role. I believe the opportunities that you get in these roles ...that is to solve big problems which has a really wide impact is something that I look forward to. Every few monts I will get to start working on a new project. So, there will be ample opportunities of learning new things and get to know about different industries, market scenarios. So, this the kind of role that I have thinking for last few years that I want to work on. So, that's whay consulting is my top most priority. And I believe to be part of consultant firm you should be extrovert and should have good  communication and listening skills. You should have good decision making skills and . And I believe I posses this qualities in me. Which can be an added advantage for me in consultant role.





Elevator Pitch
Hello! My name is Snehasish, it's pleasure to with you. I am persuing my MBA in marketting domain from IMT Ghaziabad. I have a background in IT sector. After undergraduation in Electronics and Telecommunications I have worked in TCS as PLM Software Developer where I have worked with Ashok Leyland as a client resource. In my summers I have interned with an E-commerce based Startup Sports365 where I have worked as a sales and marketing intern. There I have worked on three things there 1st is Sales, 2nd is social media marketing and 3rd is marketing research. I am currently looking for an opportunity for -------position. I was excited to learn about this opportunity in -------field. I’ve always been passionate about the ------ sector and would love the opportunity to bring my skills and leadership abilities to this position.

Hello! My name is Snehasish, it's pleasure to with you. I am a B.Tech graduate with a background in IT sector. I have worked with TCS as PLM Software Developer where I have worked with Ashok Leyland as a client resource. Currently I am persuing my MBA in Marketing Domain. In my summers I have interned with an E-commerce based Startup Sports365 where I have worked as a sales and marketing intern. There I have worked on three things there 1st is Sales, 2nd is social media marketing and 3rd is marketing research. I am currently looking for an opportunity for -------position. I was excited to learn about this opportunity in -------field. I’ve always been passionate about the ------ sector and would love the opportunity to bring my skills and leadership abilities to this position.




Firestorm Advisory: Management Consulting
Firestorm is an integrated advisory firm started in 2015. It offers advisory services for growth oriented companies. The company’s main focus is to identify disruptive trends in companies and pave the way for unlocking explosive growth. They specifically help companies capture the growth in a process oriented environment where they can control the outcome to the maximum possible. 
So, I was working on a research Project which they were doing for some firm. So the firm was Li Ion battery manufacturing company and they want to understand the current market trends of E- Rickshaw batteries. So, we have to do in-depth interviews of all the relevant stakeholders present and then provide the detailed report of our findings from the qualitative research. And then suggest a way ahead for the battery manufacturer.




Academic Projects
BRM- Watch Out for Smartwatches: Factors that influence the purchase intention of consumers
So basically we have selected this topic for the project for a reason, while going through adoption of different technological products when I have researched the wearable devices, its adoption rate is very low as compared to other coutries like China, Japan, and USA. So, we thought to analyze the reason behind this that is how consumers see wearable devices and what are the important factors that they look for while purchasing this devices. So basically we have started with Secondary research, we have studied around 4-5 papers, different articles and see the trends of last few years and based on that we have identified 6-7 important key factors which was mostly talked in all of this papers. So to dig deeper we have formed few open ended questions based on this factors and we have conducted few focus group discussions and got to know basically how and what the consumers thinks about smartwatches. So based on the secondary research data and FGD data we have prepared a main Questionnaire survey for our target audience. So basically we have set our population as people who lives in Delhi- NCR and having age between 18-40. So we have created this survey and floated this form to get the responses. And after that we performed some quantitative techinques like factor analysis and regression analysis to analyze the results and based on that results we came to conclusion on the same.
We have used IBM's SPSS tool to for all the quantitative analysis.
PU, PA, Price, RGI, Privacy Concerns, PEOU, CI, Purchase Intention




PBM- Mikkasa Cheese
So basically in this project we have been assigned Amul Cheese brand and we had to create a new rival product in cheese segment. And we have to mention how we are gonna do it and what will be our GTM strategy and how we will position our product in the market. So first we have analyzed the Amul Cheese products, what are prices where how to they sale, from where it is getting prepared and all. Basically we have analyzed the 4P and we also analyzed the Cheese segment in India. We also talked to Area Sales Manager of Amul from that also we got few insights. Then based on that we have created our own product called Mikkasa Cheese (The word Mikkasa means Cheese in Sanskrit so we thought that Amul is all about India) so that's why we have keep its name like that so it is rooted with Indian culture. So what we have observed from Amul's cheese is that penetration is low in Tier 2 & 3 cities and it is even low in Villages. Also, only few stores keep cheese product, unlike milk which is present in every other store, in case of cheese this is not the case. Also promotional activities are low for this segment. As Amul cheese are available in SKU's of 100g, 200g what we thought that we will create small sachet of 25g, 50g and 100g,so customers will have lot to choose from. Diffferent types will be available like mozarella, Cheddar etc. We thought of lauching with low price to eat up the market share. We have targeted Young Adults and people aged between 15- 40 yrs...Advertisement will target this people. We have created GTM strategy like What(Product) , Who(Target Audience), Why (Gap in Amul), Where (Distribution), How (Advertisement), When (Time). We have also did budgeting that is how to much to spend on what like How much for TV ad, Digital Ads, Newspapers etc.




MITS- Challenges Faced by CSP's
So the subject was about managing IT sales, So we have chosen a topic how the cloud is getting sold in the industry. We have chosen this topic is because if you look at the emerging technologies, cloud is the most used one. Most of the business were moving from traditional legacies system to cloud. So we have selected this to understand what are the challenges that the seller have to face while selling cloud to big organizations. So we have started the study with secondary research, we have read different published research papers, articles by Gartner, McKinsey, Delloite, IDC etc. Based on those papers we have identified few research objectives and research questions. Here in this study we did qualitative analysis. And based on all this secondary research data we have formed the questionnaire. So to get the primary data we have interviwed 4 cloud consultants who have vast experience in dealing with cloud. So, we have undertand what the industry think about the cloud. What are the challenges they face while explaining cloud to organizations, are they willing to shift from legacy to cloud ...so we have asked all those questions and got insights. And based on those insigts we have recommended few strategies that CSP can use to help them ease out the process.




Tell me about a time when you didn't get along with a co- worker?
I think that if you are working in a team it is evident that your point of view will differ from your colleagues for many situations. Same thing happened with me also when I was working with TCS, we were asked to develop a cost based analysis of the products. So for that we were supposed to develop our code using Java and Javascript. But the other collegue had different point of view that he said it will be easy if we develop it using Python. So we have discussed this issue among ourselves. But during that discussion I came to know that he was not familiar with Javascript so that's why he was asking to do using python but then I along with other few team members have explanied him that all the cost analysis using on that tools are generally coded using Java only. So after that discussion we had agreed to develop using java and at the same time also I have helped him in learning the new tools which I believe has influenced into positive result and now also I have good relation with this colleague. So I believe at the end of a day you have to understand the other person's view also and for that communication is the key. 
Which I believe is an biggest asset if you are good in communication. You have to be good communicator as well as good listener. And I think being an extrovert I am good in communication.




What made you leaves you your previous job?
First is, to learn different skills set or to broaden my skill set. As earlier I was working for TCS as a technical expertise I.e  I was more in a technical things. But I feel that I can do this job as well as the managerial job within the domain if I understand many perspectives that are involved in business. Earlier what was happening is that I was doing work for the organization but I was not aware of the business perspective of it. (Let me give you one example...I was working with Ashok Leyland on a project which was related to Costa Rica....In India generally what we see is that colour of most vehicles are either Black, Yellow or Red....but when We were developing the model for Costa Rica we were designing the vehicle of Blue and Beige were prime colors....when I asked about this they told me that based on the survey done by their marketing team the preferred color of that region was blue and beige. So this is the primary reason to do MBA.) If I understand how the marketing works, what are the finances involved to build a product from initial stage to final product. How logistics work. If I understand all these aspects then only I will be able to do my job much better. That is one of the reason to do MBA i.e. to broaden my skill set. To gain more business domain knowledge. 
Secondly persuing MBA has given me a Holistic view or Big Picture View of how business runs. Before MBA what I was lack was better understanding of the surroundings, what is the rationale behind this marketing approach and all. How the business is evolving and what will change in future. Doing an MBA will equip me with all these views to make a better decision maker. Also, It will enhance my orientation skill and enable me to contribute smartly to the business world. 




Why should we hire you?
Apart from the sales and marketing skills required for this job,the most important thing is interpersonal skills, building relationships among different people of different background and also managing network is the key. And I think till now I have done this successfully throughout my career. In my college I have organized event, I was the POC for the event sponsorship team ( I have build good relations there with my peers and also different organization people), I have lead my team during my stint with TCS, also I have lead my school and college team in sports which reflects my leadership skills and good fit for team. During my work tenure with TCS I was awarded the 5* rating for my performance and I was awarded best performer for 2 consecutive quarters which reflects my ability to work under pressure and in team situation. I have good presentation and orientation skills. Also during my SIP I have acquired good negotiation skills which I believe is very important for any situation, which also reflects my good communication skills. In addition to this I have good analytical and problem solving skills. I have a hand on experience on tools like SAP, SPSS, R, Python, SQL which I think will come in handy in some stage. Earlier also I have worked with clients so I know the expectations from them and how to deliver the project. Also I am very quickly adaptable to any situation for example 4 years I was in hostel during my college, also for TCS first I was in Trivandrum and then move to Chennai where no one knows Hindi but I quickly got familiar with every one of my team members. So I think I am good fit for this job.




Describe a situation where you were part of failed project?
So this happened during my undergraduation time. As I was persuing ETC engineering, so anually National Robotics competition is been organized where every good college from all over the India participates in that event. So, I was in my 2nd year of undergraduation at that time and we have just been notified that the event will happen in Feb ....So it takes around 3 months for planiing, developing bots to take part in. So we also started developing robotic bot. So just one month before the event we are about 90% completed that bot...but while testing the microcontroller and the sensors it catches fire because of overheating.  we were using the batteries for past 1hr but when we decide to do final try for the day we have connected vigh voltage battery which resullted in burn of all the chips. The whole team has put effort from the past two months and we have invested large amount of money also for this competition. So to see all of our efforts in vain it has disappointed us a big time. We all were down. And it was a mistake done by the whole team. It was nobodys fault we made an error.
But like you said a champion team never gives up so the next year we have again participated and we were awarded special award for our bots design So it was a proud moment for our team and we all were delighted that we have performed exceptionally well in the event.
So the biggest learning that I got from ths is that you keep have to try and try and wait for the opportunity and when it comes grab it with both hands just as we did that year.




Why do you want to work here?
Indeed it shall be a privilege for any aspiring professional to have a fruitful career with a reputed firm like Indegene. Indegene has its business globally and been in business for last 21 years. So to be part of Indegene will be dream come true for me.
I believe the analytical, problem solving skillset & experience I possess not only shall bring value to the organization, but in turn shall also help me to acquire experience & sharpen my skills with your organization’s professional work culture. Also I have a background in IT sector and I am well versed with Programming languages and analytical tools which will help me to contribute more to Indegene.
Also the global healthcare IT market size which is currently valued at USD 81.4 billion in 2021 and it is expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 10.7%. 
So the demand will never slump. There will be lot more new opportunities that will come up and I believe that I can contribute in this domain with my abilities.
If given an opportunity I positively look forward to give my best to Indegene and it will be an proud moment for me to be associate with Indegene.






Role of Businee Analyst
Business analysts (BAs) are responsible for bridging the gap between IT and the business using data analytics to assess processes, determine requirements and deliver data-driven recommendations and reports to executives and stakeholders.

BAs engage with business leaders and users to understand how data-driven changes to process, products, services, software and hardware can improve efficiencies and add value. They must articulate those ideas but also balance them against what’s technologically feasible and financially and functionally reasonable. Depending on the role, we might work with data sets to improve products, hardware, tools, software, services or process.

a business analyst job description typically includes:

    Creating a detailed business analysis, outlining problems, opportunities and solutions for a business
    Budgeting and forecasting
    Planning and monitoring
    Variance analysis
    Pricing
    Reporting
    Defining business requirements and reporting them back to stakeholders





5*
Best Performer
Lead a team
Coordinated with client
Worked by following aglie methodologies during my stint with TCS

Sales
Social- Media Marketing
Marketing Research
I was fecilitated by mentor for generating most no. of leads and was appereciated for the research work that I did.
I have learnt negotiation and presentation skills

In addition to this I have also worked with management consulting firm Firestorm Adviory as a researcher, where I have went on to the market and took In-depth interviews of the relevant stakeholders for the project.

Apart from this 
Athletics/Cricket
Manaing Events
Robotics
Analytical and problem solving skills
SAP, IBM's SPSS, R, Python, SQL

Humble and Hardworking
Patient i.e I have the ability to stay calm under pressure
Adaptability- I quickly adapt myself to any situation
